Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. This amendment forbids the quartering of soldiers in private residences during times of peace without the consent of the owner. - ttddThird Amendment [or Amendment 3]
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. This amendment officially established the procedure for filling vacancies in the Presidency or Vice-Presidency. - ttddTwenty-Fifth Amendment [or Amendment 25]
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. The Supreme Court's majority opinion from a recent case noted that the prefatory clause of this amendment ˈˈdoes not limit the [operative clause] grammatically⸴ but rather announces a purpose.ˈˈ In addition to the First Amendment⸴ the 1875 case U.S. v. Cruikshank (ˈˈCROOK-shankˈˈ) focused on this amendment⸴ which was applied to the states in the 2010 case McDonald v. Chicago. In 2008⸴ the court ruled in District of Columbia v. Heller that this amendment conferred the right to self-defense. A ˈˈwell regulated militiaˈˈ is mentioned in the text of what amendment that protects the right to bear arms? - ttddSecond Amendment [or Amendment 2]
Name these actions utilized by high-level government officials. One manner by which the President may ensure that a bill does not become law is by utilizing this action⸴ in which he does not sign the bill but is not able to return it to Congress within ten days because they are not in session. - ttddPocket veto [prompt on ˈˈvetoˈˈ]
Name these actions utilized by high-level government officials. A three-fifths vote of approval from the U.S. Senate must be achieved before utilizing this procedure⸴ which is used to end a filibuster. - ttddCloture (KLOHT-chur)
Name these actions utilized by high-level government officials. The Supreme Court affirmed the right to deny this action in the cases U.S. v. Wilson and Burdick v. U.S. In February 2001⸴ an investigation was initiated to review one of these actions that benefitted Marc Rich. Article 2⸴ Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution gives the president the power to perform this action ˈˈexcept in cases of impeachment.ˈˈ George H.W. Bush applied this action to six men involved in the Iran-Contra affair⸴ and Bill Clinton performed this action over one hundred times on his last day in office. Name this presidential action that Gerald Ford applied to Richard Nixon to prevent him from receiving criminal charges. - ttddPresidential pardon [accept word forms; prompt on ˈˈclemencyˈˈ]
Answer some questions about economic goods. These goods experience a positive cross elasticity of demand as demand for one increases with the price of the other. An example of these goods may include coffee and tea or margarine and butter. - ttddSubstitute good
Answer some questions about economic goods. This type of good violates the Law of Demand⸴ as demand for it increases with its price. Examples of this type of good⸴ which are often used as status symbols⸴ include wine and expensive cars. - ttddLuxury good [accept Veblen good]
Answer some questions about economic goods. Although not externalities⸴ Ronald Coase proposed that if transaction costs are low⸴ this type of good could be produced efficiently. These goods are often underproduced because of their overconsumption by non-payers⸴ an issue known as the free rider problem. Producing these goods at market equilibrium is difficult because they are both non-rival and non-excludable⸴ and examples of them include national defense and lighthouses. Name this type of good that is often provided by the government and can be contrasted with a private good. - ttddPublic good [do NOT accept ˈˈcommon goodˈˈ]
Name the following related to the early government of the United States. Britain's passage of the Intolerable Acts prompted the September 1774 assembly of this delegation⸴ which adopted its ˈˈDeclaration and Resolvesˈˈ that included a boycott of British goods. - ttddFirst Continental Congress [prompt on ˈˈContinental Congressˈˈ; do not prompt on ˈˈCongressˈˈ]
Name the following related to the early government of the United States. A variety of issues that remained unresolved since the end of the Revolutionary War were addressed in this 1794 treaty with Great Britain⸴ which was chiefly negotiated by the man who went on to become New York's second governor. - ttddJay's Treaty [accept Treaty of Amity⸴ Commerce⸴ and Navigation; prompt on ˈˈTreaty of Londonˈˈ]
Name the following related to the early government of the United States. This man described a federal government as ˈˈthe proper antidote for the diseases of factionˈˈ in an essay that addressed ˈˈobjections to the proposed Constitution from extent of territory.ˈˈ During the Constitutional Convention⸴ this man and Edmund Randolph formulated the ˈˈVirginia Planˈˈ which proposed a legislature based on state populations. The Bill of Rights was largely the brainchild of this man⸴ who teamed with John Jay and Alexander Hamilton to author the Federalist Papers. Name this ˈˈFather of the Constitutionˈˈ who served as the fourth U.S. President between 1809 and 1817. - ttddJames Madison
Name these twentieth century politicians. This former U.S. Senator from Connecticut was the running mate of Al Gore in the presidential election of 2000. - ttddJoseph Isadore ˈˈJoeˈˈ Lieberman
Name these twentieth century politicians. This former U.S. Senator from Minnesota was the sitting vice president when he lost the presidential election of 1968 to Richard Nixon. - ttddHubert Horatio Humphrey Jr.
Name these twentieth century politicians. This politician referred to a group of critics as ˈˈSnow White and the Six Dwarvesˈˈ in response to a speech titled Declaration of Conscience. The Tydings Committee was established in response to a speech given by this man in Wheeling⸴ West Virginia. Senator Margaret Chase Smith and journalist Edward R. Murrow were vocal critics of this man⸴ who was notably asked during a 1954 Senate hearing ˈˈhave you left no sense of decency?ˈˈ Name this Wisconsin Senator best remembered for leading investigations to find government employees who were Communists. - ttddJoseph Raymond ˈˈJoeˈˈ McCarthy
Name these Supreme Court cases. The unanimous ruling in this 1819 case invalidated a state law that established a tax on the Second Bank of the United States. - ttddJames McCulloch (mik-KULL-uk) v. The State of Maryland
Name these Supreme Court cases. FDR's Executive Order 9066 was challenged by the plaintiff of this 1944 case⸴ in which the Supreme Court ruled by a six to three majority that the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II was constitutional. - ttddFred Toyosaburo Korematsu (KOR-ah-maht-zoo) v. United States
Name these Supreme Court cases. To address one issue at the center of this case⸴ the court's majority opinion referenced William Blackstone's assertion that ˈˈwhere there is a legal right⸴ there is a legal remedy...whenever that right is invaded.ˈˈ Associate Justices Alfred Moore and William Cushing did not participate in this case⸴ which originated in part from the inaction of Levi Lincoln. In a unanimous four to zero opinion⸴ the court ruled that they could not issue a writ of mandamus (man-DAY- muss) because a portion of the Judiciary Act of 1789 was unconstitutional. The failure to deliver a commission to one of the ˈˈmidnight judgesˈˈ of John Adams led to what 1803 case which established the principle of judicial review? - ttddWilliam Marbury v. James Madison
Identify the following Economists. This member of the Chicago school proposed a negative income-tax in his work Capitalism and Freedom⸴ which described his monetarist views of the free market. - ttddMilton Friedman
Identify the following Economists. This British economist and author of Principles of Political Economy and Taxation used the example of Portuguese wine and English cloth to illustrate his idea of comparative advantage. - ttddDavid Ricardo
Identify the following Economists. In one work⸴ this man argued that many companies were no longer seeking profit-maximization⸴ as shareholders were being replaced by a technostructure. This theorist posited that advertisements created artificial demand⸴ which he termed the ˈˈdependence effectˈˈ in a work that goes on to define the ˈˈNew Classˈˈ of workers. This author of The New Industrial State argued against the use of GDP as a useful economic indicator in his most famous work. Name this economic theorist who coined the term ˈˈconventional wisdomˈˈ in his book The Affluent Society. - ttddJohn Kenneth Galbraith
Name these men based on positions they held prior to becoming U.S. president. This politician was the only man to have served as the Speaker of the House of Representatives prior to becoming the President. - ttddJames Knox Polk
Name these men based on positions they held prior to becoming U.S. president. Prior to becoming President⸴ this mining engineer served as the Secretary of Commerce under each of his two presidential predecessors. - ttddHerbert Clark Hoover
Name these men based on positions they held prior to becoming U.S. president. In the same year that he was appointed as a commissioner of the U.S. Civil Service Commission⸴ this man published the first volume of his six-part historical work The Winning of the West. During his presidency⸴ he increased regulation of the railroads by signing the Hepburn Act. This man was the first of two U.S. presidents to serve as Assistant Secretary of the Navy⸴ a position which he resigned to command a volunteer cavalry unit that fought in the Spanish- American War. Name this leader of the ˈˈRough Ridersˈˈ who became president in 1901 upon the death of William McKinley. - ttddTheodore Roosevelt [or Teddy Roosevelt; prompt on ˈˈRooseveltˈˈ]
Name these former political parties. This short lived party⸴ which sought a compromise on the slavery issue in order to avoid secession⸴ nominated John Bell for president in the election of 1860. - ttddConstitutional Union Party [answer must be exact]
Name these former political parties. This anti-slavery party nominated James Birney for the presidency in both the 1840 and 1844 elections. - ttddLiberty Party
Name these former political parties. One early leader of this party was Morris Hillquit. This party was represented in Congress by Meyer London and Victor Berger. Emil Seidel was the first of three Milwaukee mayors who were members of this party⸴ which nominated Norman Thomas for the presidency six times between 1928 and 1948. The best known leader of this party was imprisoned for his violation of the Espionage Act of 1917; although⸴ while in jail⸴ he still received nearly one million votes during the election of 1920. Eugene V. Debs was a member of what political party⸴ a portion of which split in 1919 to form the Communist Party? - ttddSocialist Party of America
Identify these important economic theorists. This Austrian economist wrote that central planning leads to totalitarianism in his The Road to Serfdom. - ttddFriedrich August von Hayek
Identify these important economic theorists. In his most famous work⸴ this Indian welfare theorist and 1998 Nobel Prize winner showed that poor distribution rather than shortages were the cause of the title Poverty and Famines. - ttddAmartya Sen
Identify these important economic theorists. This man divided the elite into ˈlions' who defend the status quo and ˈfoxes' who promote change in one work. This theorist names a logarithmic distribution used to estimate income distribution⸴ in addition to a principle that states for most events⸴ eighty percent of the effects are a result of twenty percent of the causes. If two indifference curves intersect⸴ then they are experiencing a condition named for this author of The Mind and Society⸴ in which neither of the involved parties can be made better off without harming the other. Name this Italian economist who is perhaps best known for that aforementioned ˈˈoptimality.ˈˈ - ttddVilfredo Pareto
Give these surnames that have been shared by multiple politicians. This surname identifies an early U.S. Senator from Kentucky who also served as Attorney General under Thomas Jefferson⸴ in addition to that man's grandson⸴ who was the sitting vice president when he finished second in the presidential election of 1860. - ttddBreckinridge [accept John Breckinridge or John Cabell Breckinridge]
Give these surnames that have been shared by multiple politicians. This surname identifies a U.S. Senator from Iowa who was the father-in-law of Robert Todd Lincoln⸴ in addition to a Supreme Court justice perhaps best known for being the lone dissenter in Plessy v. Ferguson⸴ which helped lead to his nickname of ˈˈThe Great Dissenter.ˈˈ - ttddHarlan [accept James Harlan or John Marshall Harlan]
Give these surnames that have been shared by multiple politicians. Along with Robert Carter⸴ one man with this surname helped his client gain admission to the University of Texas law school by successfully arguing the Supreme Court case Sweatt v. Painter. Another man with this surname was replaced by Dean Atchison upon retiring as Secretary of State⸴ and his work while in that position led to him receiving the 1953 Nobel Peace Prize. A Thomas with this surname served as vice president under Woodrow Wilson. A John with this surname preceded Roger B. Taney (TAW-nee) as Supreme Court Chief Justice and served from 1801 to 1835. Give this surname of the first African-American member of the Supreme Court⸴ whose first name was Thurgood. - ttddMarshall [accept Thurgood Marshall or George Catlett Marshall Jr. or Thomas Riley Marshall or John Marshall]
Name these presidential elections. James Weaver won five states as the nominee of the Populist Party in this election⸴ in which the winning vice presidential candidate was Adlai Stevenson I. - ttddPresidential election of 1892
Name these presidential elections. This was the most recent election in which the winning candidate effectively ran unopposed. The winning vice presidential candidate was Daniel Tompkins. - ttddPresidential election of 1820
Name these presidential elections. One candidate in this election originally announced his candidacy by exclaiming ˈˈmy hat is in the ring⸴ the fight is on and I am stripped to the buff!ˈˈ Eight electoral votes for vice president were given to Nicholas Butler because of the death of James Sherman less than one week before this election. One candidate was shot in the chest by John Schrank in the month prior to this election⸴ which was won by a man who espoused a ˈˈNew Freedomˈˈ platform. The incumbent president finished third in this election⸴ in which the second place finisher was the Bull Moose Party candidate⸴ Theodore Roosevelt. Name this presidential election⸴ the first of two won by Woodrow Wilson. - ttddPresidential election of 1912
Name these men who served non-consecutive terms as a U.S. Senator. This Ohioan served as the Secretary of Treasury under Rutherford B. Hayes prior to his second stint in the Senate⸴ during which he sponsored a ˈˈSilver Purchase Actˈˈ requiring the U.S. government to buy an increased quantity of the precious metal. - ttddJohn Sherman
Name these men who served non-consecutive terms as a U.S. Senator. This man from Massachusetts ran as Nixon's Vice Presidential candidate in 1960⸴ and his grandfather successfully stopped the United Stated from entering the League of Nations following World War I. - ttddHenry Cabot Lodge⸴ Jr.
Name these men who served non-consecutive terms as a U.S. Senator. This politician noted that ˈˈthe imprisoned winds are let looseˈˈ before imploring listeners to ˈˈhear me for my causeˈˈ near the beginning of his Seventh of March speech. This man successfully prevented his alma mater from being converted into a public school by successfully arguing the Supreme Court case Dartmouth College v. Woodward. He negotiated the treaty ending the Aroostook (uh-ROOSS-tuk) War while serving as Secretary of State⸴ a position that he held under presidents William Henry Harrison⸴ John Tyler⸴ and Millard Fillmore. He was part of the ˈˈGreat Triumvirateˈˈ of Senators that also included John C. Calhoun and Henry Clay. Name this noted orator from Massachusetts. - ttddDaniel Webster
Answer these questions about important economic models. What graph plots unemployment against job vacancy rate? Its namesake authored a famous ˈˈReportˈˈ that initiated the British welfare state following World War II. - ttddBeveridge Curve
Answer these questions about important economic models. What graph created by John Hicks plots GDP against interest rate and can be used to identify the concurrent equilibrium of the interest and asset markets? - ttddIS-LM model [or Investment Saving - Liquidity Preference Money Supply model]
Answer these questions about important economic models. Paul Samuelson argued that this phenomenon will result in factor price equalization⸴ and economic mass appears in the numerator of Jan Tinbergen's gravity model of this phenomenon. Leontief's paradox cites the U.S. as a violator of a popular model of this phenomenon⸴ and that model of this activity applies comparative advantage to it to predict that nations will engage in this activity depending on the intensity of their use of abundant and scarce factors. Name this activity described by the Heckscher-Ohlin model⸴ in which nations import and export goods in order to expand beyond their production-possibility frontier. - ttddEconomic trade [accept international trade]
Name these pieces of federal legislation. This 1862 legislation provided land grants to each state for the purpose of establishing colleges with an agricultural and mechanical focus. - ttddMorrill Land-Grant Act of 1862
Name these pieces of federal legislation. The Anti-Injunction Act was another name for this 1932 legislation that banned the use of yellow-dog contracts and prohibited federal courts from issuing injunctions against nonviolent strikers. The second namesake of this law was a Mayor of New York City who now lends his name to an airport. - ttddNorris-LaGuardia Act
Name these pieces of federal legislation. Opposition to this law resulted in the execution of a jailbreak known as the ˈˈJerry Rescue.ˈˈ This law was passed to close a legal loophole identified by the Supreme Court in Prigg v. Pennsylvania. This act strengthened a similarly named law passed in 1793. Many states passed ˈˈpersonal liberty lawsˈˈ to combat this act⸴ which opponents derisively nicknamed ˈˈThe Bloodhound Law.ˈˈ It was passed as part of a larger piece of legislation that admitted California as a free state. The Compromise of 1850 included what law that required Northern states to return certain escapees to the South? - ttddFugitive Slave Act of 1850 or Fugitive Slave Law [prompt on ˈˈCompromise of 1850ˈˈ before mentioned; do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈFugitive Slave Clauseˈˈ or ˈˈFugitive Slave Act of 1793ˈˈ]
Name these former Treasury Secretaries. This Swiss-born politician is the longest tenured Treasury Secretary in history⸴ having served for nearly thirteen years from 1801 to 1814. - ttddAbraham Alfonse Albert Gallatin
Name these former Treasury Secretaries. This Georgia politician served as Treasury Secretary between 1816 and 1825⸴ but he is perhaps best remembered for finishing third⸴ behind John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson⸴ in the presidential election of 1824. - ttddWilliam Harris Crawford
Name these former Treasury Secretaries. This politician was proposed as a presidential candidate in a document known as the Pomeroy Circular. During his tenure as Secretary of Treasury⸴ greenback currency was issued for the first time. This man⸴ who served as the first Republican Governor of Ohio⸴ was succeeded in his most powerful position by Morrison Waite. This politician served as Abraham Lincoln's first Secretary of Treasury⸴ which he resigned for a position that would allow him to preside over the impeachment of Andrew Johnson. Name this Supreme Court Chief Justice between 1864 and 1873. - ttddSalmon Portland Chase
Name these men who served as Supreme Court justices. The majority opinion in Gideon v. Wainwright was written by this justice⸴ who was an Alabama Senator when he was elevated to the Supreme Court in 1937. He went on to serve until 1971⸴ making him the fifth-longest tenured Supreme Court justice in history. - ttddHugo Lafayette Black
Name these men who served as Supreme Court justices. This co-founder of the ACLU was appointed to the Supreme Court by FDR as the third-ever Jewish member of the court. He served between 1939 and 1962 and was renowned for his advocacy of judicial restraint. - ttddFelix Frankfurter
Name these men who served as Supreme Court justices. While on the Supreme Court⸴ this man authored the majority opinion that upheld a Washington minimum wage law in West Coast Hotel v. Parrish. He succeeded David Brewer on the Supreme Court by resigning as Governor of New York. This man delivered the majority opinion declaring the NIRA (ˈˈN-I-R-Aˈˈ) unconstitutional in Schechter (SHEK- turr) Poultry v. U.S. This man resigned from the Supreme Court in an unsuccessful bid to defeat Woodrow Wilson⸴ but he would later be reappointed to the court as the successor to William Howard Taft. Name this loser in the election of 1916 who was the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court from 1930 to 1941. - ttddCharles Evans Hughes Sr.
Identify these economic schools named for geographic locations. An economic school based in this European country includes thinkers like Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek. That economic school focuses on changes in the market because of individual decisions and what von Mises called praxeology. - ttddAustria
Identify these economic schools named for geographic locations. Amartya Sen and George Akerlof taught at the school of economics in this European city⸴ where Jomo Kenyatta studied under Bronislaw Malinowski. - ttddLondon
Identify these economic schools named for geographic locations. A professor of one school in this city names a theorem in which a Pareto efficient transaction can be reached by bargaining⸴ despite the presence of any externalities. Another professor of this economic school wrote Capitalism and Freedom and collaborated with Anna Schwartz on A Monetary History of the United States. A group of economists from this city advised the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet. Identify this Midwestern school where Ronald Coase and Milton Friedman taught at its namesake university. - ttddChicago
Name these words or phrases that appear in the U.S. Constitution. Give the exact four word phrase that fills in the blank in the following excerpt that begins Article 4: ˈˈ[blank] shall be given in each State to the public Acts⸴ Records⸴ and Judicial Proceedings of every other State.ˈˈ - ttddFull faith and credit
Name these words or phrases that appear in the U.S. Constitution. Give the exact two word phrase that fills in the blank in the following excerpt from Article 6: ˈˈno [blank] shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States.ˈˈ - ttddReligious test
Name these words or phrases that appear in the U.S. Constitution. Section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment notes that Representatives are to be determined based on state population ˈˈexcluding [these individuals] not taxed.ˈˈ An unarmed group of these people were attacked by John (*) Chivington during the Sand Creek Massacre. The Supreme Court ruled in (**) Worcester (WOOS-ter) v. Georgia that state laws did not apply in lands controlled by these people⸴ who were subjected to a namesake 1830 ˈˈRemoval Actˈˈ signed by Andrew Jackson. Name these people subjected to forced marches known as the (***) Trail of Tears. - ttddIndians [accept Native Americans or American Indians or indigenous Americans or indigenous people or natives; accept Cheyenne or Arapaho after (*); accept Cherokee after (**); accept Five Civilized Tribes or Chickasaw or Choctaw or Creek Confederacy or Muscogee or Seminole after (***)]
Name these people and concepts from French economics. This French term from liberal economics refers to the hands off approach of the government in order to let the market work freely. - ttddLaissez-faire
Name these people and concepts from French economics. John Maynard Keynes interpreted this law⸴ named for a Frenchmen⸴ to mean that supply creates its own demand. - ttddSay's law
Name these people and concepts from French economics. French economist Leon Walras proposed one type of these events which he suggested will reach equilibrium through trial and error. Ronald Coase was referred to as the father of the spectrum type of these events after suggesting the distribution of radio and TV bandwidth. Collusion refers to people with prior knowledge of other people's attendance of these events working together⸴ while the Dutch form entails the price of an item decreasing until it is purchased. In what events do people bid on items being sold? - ttddAuction
Name these states who were once led by the following governors. Gray Davis⸴ Earl Warren⸴ and currently Jerry Brown - ttddCalifornia
Name these states who were once led by the following governors. George Romney⸴ Jennifer Granholm⸴ and currently Rick Snyder - ttddMichigan
Name these states who were once led by the following governors. One man who served as governor of this state was Winthrop Rockefeller⸴ who was a grandson of John D. Rockefeller. After being convicted of fraud⸴ Jim Guy Tucker resigned as governor of this state⸴ where members of the 101st Airborne Division compelled another governor to allow Central High School to desegregate by accepting nine black students. The Whitewater scandal involved a governor of this state who was re-elected as President over Republican Bob Dole. Name this Southern state whose governors have included Orval Faubus (OR-vil FAW-bus)⸴ Mike Huckabee⸴ and Bill Clinton. - ttddArkansas
Name these economists better known for their work in other fields of thought. This British economist laid out an early form of Walrus' law in his Essays on Some Unsettled Questions of Political Economy. He may be better known for his theory of names outlined in his book A System of Logic. - ttddJohn Stuart Mill
Name these economists better known for their work in other fields of thought. This man argued that the British taxation of American colonies is justified as a ˈˈreserve powerˈˈ in his speech ˈˈOn American Taxation.ˈˈ He more famously attacked the French Revolution in his Reflections on the Revolution in France. - ttddEdmund Burke
Name these economists better known for their work in other fields of thought. With Gerard Debreu⸴ this man names an economic model that argues given a set of preliminary conditions⸴ there exists a price for every commodity where aggregate supply equals aggregate demand. That model is part of his general equilibrium theory developed concurrently with Lionel McKenzie. Amartya Sen's liberal paradox is considered an extension of a theorem named for this man first presented in Social Choice and Individual Values. Unanimity⸴ non- dictatorship⸴ and individual sovereignty are three of five criteria that cannot be satisfied while creating a community ranking representative of individual ranked preferences in a voting system according to what man's impossibility theorem? - ttddKenneth Joseph Arrow
Name these clauses from the U.S. Constitution. This clause was cited in the majority opinion to the 1819 case McCulloch (mik-KULL-uk) v. Maryland⸴ in which the Supreme Court ruled that the Second Bank of the U.S. was legal despite the fact that the power to charter a bank is not granted to the federal government by the Constitution. - ttddNecessary and Proper Clause [accept Elastic Clause or Basket Clause or Coefficient Clause or Sweeping Clause]
Name these clauses from the U.S. Constitution. These exact two words are the namesake of two separate Constitutional clauses: one in Article 4 notes ˈˈthe citizens of each state shall be entitled to allˈˈ of these ˈˈof Citizens in the several states⸴ˈˈ and the other in the Fourteenth Amendment notes ˈˈNo state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridgeˈˈ these ˈˈof citizens of the United States.ˈˈ - ttddPrivileges and Immunities [accept Privileges and Immunities Clause or Privileges or Immunities Clause]
Name these clauses from the U.S. Constitution. In a 1964 case⸴ the Supreme Court ruled that this clause was not violated by the provision in the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that prohibited racial discrimination by the Heart of Atlanta Hotel. In 2012⸴ Chief Justice John Roberts was the swing vote in a case which ruled that the individual mandate in the Affordable Care Act was legal as a tax but would be considered unconstitutional under this clause⸴ which appears in Article 1⸴ Section 8 as one of the enumerated powers. In the 1824 case Gibbons v. Ogden⸴ the court ruled that this clause allowed Congress to regulate navigation on interstate waterways. Name this clause concerning business activities among the states. - ttddCommerce Clause
Identify these important documents from American history. James Madison stated that ˈˈThe latent causes of faction are thus sown in the nature of manˈˈ in which of the Federalist Papers which stated that a large government was best suited to combat the danger of factions? - ttddFederalist Number 10
Identify these important documents from American history. The writers stated that ˈˈif men were angels⸴ no government would be necessaryˈˈ in which of the Federalist Papers which discussed the importance of checks and balances and stated that ˈˈambition must be made to counteract ambition?ˈˈ - ttddFederalist Number 51
Identify these important documents from American history. One line from this document stated ˈˈLike Paul⸴ I must constantly respond to the Macedonian call for aid.ˈˈ This document quoted Thomas Aquinas and compared the writer's current circumstance to Socrates's ˈˈunnerving commitment to truth.ˈˈ This document cited Chief Justice Earl Warren in stating that ˈˈjustice too long delayed is justice denied.ˈˈ This document was written in response to a newspaper article entitled ˈˈA Call for Unityˈˈ and contains the quote ˈˈinjustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.ˈˈ Identify this 1963 document that was written while Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was imprisoned in Alabama. - ttddLetter from Birmingham Jail (Accept Letter from Birmingham City Jail OR The Negro is Your Brother)
Answer these questions about Constitutional amendments. Team A:Wayne Wheeler of the Anti-Saloon League drafted what 1919 legislation which enacted the intent of the 18th amendment? ANSWER: Volstead Act OR National Prohibition Act The 20th amendment moved the starting date for each session of Congress from March 4th to what date in January? - ttddJanuary 3rd
Answer these questions about Constitutional amendments. Team A:Wayne Wheeler of the Anti-Saloon League drafted what 1919 legislation which enacted the intent of the 18th amendment? ANSWER: Volstead Act OR National Prohibition Act The 2018 Supreme Court case of Collins v. Virginia ruled that this amendment did not apply to the curtilage of a structure. This amendment was extended to electronic communications in the 1967 case of Katz v. United States. Courts in the United States enforce the spirit of this amendment through use of the Exclusionary rule. A 1961 Supreme Court case pertaining to this amendment introduced the ˈˈfruit of the poisonous treeˈˈ doctrine and extended this amendment to the states. That case was Mapp v. Ohio. Identify this amendment which bans illegal search and seizure. - ttdd4th Amendment
Identify these individuals who have served as US ambassadors. The US ambassador to the United Nations from 1993-1997 was what woman who later served as the first female Secretary of State? - ttddMadeleine Albright
Identify these individuals who have served as US ambassadors. The US ambassador to the United Nations from 1953-1960 was what Republican who was Richard Nixon's Vice Presidential candidate in the election of 1960? This man's grandfather of the same name led the opposition to Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points. - ttddHenry Cabot Lodge Jr.
Identify these individuals who have served as US ambassadors. In 1949⸴ this man provided testimony as a character witness on behalf of Alger Hiss. This man died of heart failure in London shortly after returning from a UN conference in Switzerland. During a heated discussion with Soviet minister Valerian Zorin during the Cuban Missile Crisis⸴ this man famously quipped ˈˈDo not wait for the translation.ˈˈ This man served as US ambassador to the United Nations from 1961 until his 1965 death. Identify this Democratic politician who lost the 1952 and 1956 Presidential elections to Dwight Eisenhower. - ttddAdlai Stevenson
Answer these questions about American Vice Presidents. What man served as Abraham Lincoln's first Vice President from 1861-1865 before being replaced in the position by Andrew Johnson? - ttddHannibal Hamlin
Answer these questions about American Vice Presidents. What Ohio politician who won a Nobel Peace Prize for his work on World War I reparations plans served as Vice President from 1925-1929 under Calvin Coolidge? - ttddCharles Dawes
Answer these questions about American Vice Presidents. A speech given by this man entitled ˈˈThe Price of Free World Victoryˈˈ inspired the Aaron Copland composition ˈˈFanfare for the Common Man.ˈˈ After being removed as Vice President after a contentious National Convention⸴ this man was appointed Secretary of Agriculture. After Vice President John Nance Garner ran against the sitting President in 1940⸴ he was replaced as Vice President by this man. Identify this politician from Iowa who served as Franklin Roosevelt's second Vice President before being replaced by Harry Truman. - ttddHenry Wallace
Identify the state based upon people who have served as Governor of that state. Michele Grisham is the current Governor of what state that was previously governed by Gary Johnson and Bill Richardson? - ttddNew Mexico
Identify the state based upon people who have served as Governor of that state. Chris Sununu is the current Governor of what state that was previously governed by Jeanne Shaheen and Maggie Hassan? - ttddNew Hampshire
Identify the state based upon people who have served as Governor of that state. One former Governor of this state chaired a National Commission to investigate the causes of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. That man⸴ Bob Graham⸴ served as Governor of this state from 1979- 1987 before being elected to the US Senate. Charlie Crist served as Governor of this state from 2007- 2011 after succeeding a man whose brother and father served as US President. Ron DeSantis is the current Governor of what state that was previously governed by Rick Scott and Jeb Bush? - ttddFlorida
Answers these questions about concepts from economics. Guns and butter are traditional examples used to demonstrate what curve from economics which shows the possible combinations that an economy might produce of two goods at full employment? - ttddProduction Possibilities Curve OR Production Possibilities Frontier OR PPC OR PPF
Answers these questions about concepts from economics. The Production Possibilities Curve can often be used to demonstrate what concept from economics⸴ which is defined as the value of the most valuable option not taken by a business? - ttddOpportunity Cost
Answers these questions about concepts from economics. The negative slope of these curves is equal to the marginal rate of substitution and can be found by utilizing the corners of an Edgeworth Box. The budget constraint curve intersects a point that is tangent to one of these curves. When two products are perfect substitutes⸴ one of these curves would have a constant slope; however⸴ when two products are perfect complements⸴ these curves would take on an L- shape. Identify these curves connecting points on a graph for which consumers have no preference. - ttddIndifference curves
Answer these questions about the US Constitution. The Supreme Court case of Wisconsin v. Yoder dealt with what clause of the 1st Amendment? That case concerned Amish children attending school past the eighth grade. - ttddFree exercise clause
Answer these questions about the US Constitution. In the 1967 case Afroyim v. Rusk⸴ the Supreme Court stated that this amendment overrode the Bancroft Treaties. In the 1886 case of Santa Clara County v. Southern Pacific Railroad⸴ the Supreme Court said that this amendment grants protections to businesses in addition to people. This amendment discusses the fact that no state will enforce a law restricting the Privileges and Immunities of citizens of another state. This amendment's due process clause has been used to selectively incorporate other amendments to the states. Identify this Reconstruction amendment that contains the equal protection clause and guarantees citizenship for anyone born in the United States⸴ - ttddTeam B:The Supreme Court case of Gibbons v. Ogden dealt with what clause of the Constitution that can be found in Article 1⸴ Section 8 within the powers of Congress? ANSWER: Commerce clause ANSWER: 14th Amendment
Name the following related to the U.S. Congress. The Constitution's ˈˈNecessary and Properˈˈ clause is used as justification to give Congress powers of this type⸴ which are not expressly granted by the Constitution. - ttddimplied powers
Name the following related to the U.S. Congress. When combining the House of Representatives and Senate⸴ this is the number of voting members of which Congress is comprised. - ttddfive hundred thirty-five or 535
Name the following related to the U.S. Congress. Proceedings related to this action are not subject to judicial review according to the ruling of a 1993 Supreme Court case involving Walter Nixon. William Belknap was the only Cabinet member to whom this action was applied⸴ and in 15 of the 19 times in which this action took place⸴ the target was a federal judge. It first occurred to a U.S. president after a violation of the Tenure of Office Act in 1868. A trial overseen by the Senate occurs after the House of Representatives takes this action⸴ which can be initiated due to ˈˈtreason⸴ bribery⸴ or other high crimes and misdemeanors.ˈˈ Name this action in which a federal official is removed from office. - ttddimpeachment [accept word forms]
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Ratified in 1961⸴ this amendment gave citizens of the District of Columbia the ability to vote in presidential elections by granting Washington D.C. members in the Electoral College. - ttdd23rd Amendment
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Ratified in 1913⸴ this amendment allows for the direct election of U.S. Senators⸴ who had previously been chosen by state legislatures. - ttdd17th Amendment
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Joseph McKenna argued that this amendment had an ˈˈexpansive and vital characterˈˈ in the majority opinion for Weems v. United States. Since the 1958 case Trop v. Dulles⸴ the ˈˈevolving standards of decencyˈˈ test has been applied in cases dealing with this amendment⸴ which⸴ along with the 14th amendment⸴ was at the center of a 1972 case involving William Furman. In the case Gregg v. Georgia⸴ the Supreme Court ruled that this amendment was not automatically violated by sentences involving the death penalty. Name this Bill of Rights amendment which outlaws ˈˈexcessive bail⸴ ˈˈexcessive fines⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈcruel and unusual punishments.ˈˈ - ttdd8th Amendment
These questions will involve the economics of society's ability to make goods. What diagrams depict two goods⸴ such as guns and butter⸴ and a society's ability to make them? They are generally used to illustrate the tradeoffs between making said two goods. - ttddproduction possibility frontier [or ppf⸴ accept production possibilities frontier or production possibility diagram or production possibilities diagram]
These questions will involve the economics of society's ability to make goods. The production possibilities frontier illustrates this type of cost of making a good⸴ which is defined as the alternatives one foregoes to engage in an activity. - ttddopportunity cost
These questions will involve the economics of society's ability to make goods. In agreement with the views of the libertarian Richard Cobden⸴ this economist argued that England's ability to make technological advances were hampered by its desire to keep import duties high. He extended Ferdinand Lasalle's (LUH-ˈˈSal'sˈˈ) argument that payments to laborers would⸴ in the long run⸴ tend toward the level necessary for subsistence⸴ which became known as his iron law of wages. Name this British economist who wrote Principles of Political Economy and Taxation and Rent in addition to developing a theory of international trade. - ttddDavid Ricardo
Name these Supreme Court cases. The ruling from this 1966 case established that during an interrogation⸴ criminal suspects shall be advised of their rights to silence and an attorney via a namesake warning. - ttddErnesto Arturo Miranda v. Arizona [accept Miranda warnings or Miranda rights]
Name these Supreme Court cases. The doctrine of judicial review was established in this 1803 case which stemmed from the sitting Secretary of State's refusal to deliver the commission of a man whose appointment was made by John Adams on the latter's final day in office. - ttddWilliam Marbury v. James Madison
Name these Supreme Court cases. In his final appearance before the Supreme Court⸴ former Democratic presidential nominee John W. Davis argued on behalf of the defense for this case. The rulings made four years earlier in Sweatt v. Painter and McLaurin v. Oklahoma State Regents were referenced in the unanimous opinion for this case. In a subsequent case⸴ the Supreme Court ruled that its decision must be implemented ˈˈwith all deliberate speed.ˈˈ Thurgood Marshall⸴ while working for the NAACP⸴ argued for the plaintiffs in this case⸴ which overturned the ˈˈseparate but equalˈˈ doctrine established in Plessy v. Ferguson. Name this 1954 case which ruled that segregation in schools was illegal. - ttddOliver Brown⸴ et al. v. Board of Education of Topeka⸴ Kansas⸴ et. al.
Name these current U.S. governors. Raised as Sikh⸴ this Indian-American woman and youngest current governor has served as South Carolina's Governor since succeeding Mark Sanford in 2011. - ttddNimrata Nikki Randhawa Haley
Name these current U.S. governors. This other Indian-American⸴ who has served as the Governor of Louisiana since 2008⸴ made headlines in January 2015 for criticizing Western European governments for allegedly allowing Muslim-controlled ˈˈno-go zones.ˈˈ - ttddPiyush ˈˈBobbyˈˈ Jindal (JIN-dul)
Name these current U.S. governors. In 2011 this governor pulled his state out of the environmental organization Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative. Shortly before being re-elected as governor over Barbara Buono⸴ he authorized over ten million dollars to be spent on a special election to fill the seat left by deceased U.S. Senator Frank Lautenberg⸴ which was won by Cory Booker. In January 2015 he was criticized for accepting all-expense paid trips to several Dallas Cowboys football games. This governor was embroiled in a 2013 scandal in which members of his staff were involved in the closure of traffic lanes that provided residents of Fort Lee access to the George Washington Bridge. Name this current Governor of New Jersey. - ttddChristopher James Christie
Name the following related to the economics of living. The Case-Shiller metric is an example of what measure of the cost of living⸴ which is calculated for a ˈˈbasket of goodsˈˈ? - ttddconsumer price index or CPI
Name the following related to the economics of living. What economic variable in the cost of living is often controlled through the use of namesake price ceilings? For a business⸴ this cost is often tax-deductible. - ttddrent
Name the following related to the economics of living. The golden rule of this quantity is used to figure out what is the ideal macroeconomic level of it for growth. This quantity⸴ which is the S in the IS-LM model⸴ is the upper bound on the so-called ˈˈreserve ratioˈˈ⸴ which is defined as the amount of money the Federal Reserve mandates that banks keep on hand. A financial institution that specializes in mortgages is called a ˈˈ[this] and loan bankˈˈ. Accounts named for this quantity feature a rate of return that ideally beats the inflation rate. Name this quantity⸴ which is defined as the portion of income one keeps for future use. - ttddsavings rate
Name these Cabinet-level positions In 2014⸴ former Kansas Governor Kathleen Sibelius resigned from this position⸴ which led to the appointment of its current holder⸴ Sylvia Burwell. - ttddSecretary of Health and Human Services or Health and Human Services Secretary [prompt on ˈˈHHSˈˈ]
Name these Cabinet-level positions A 2014 scandal led to Eric Shinseki's resignation of this office⸴ which was the most recent to be added as a Cabinet level position until the 2001 creation of the Department of Homeland Security. - ttddSecretary of Veterans Affairs or Veterans Affairs Secretary [prompt on ˈˈVAˈˈ]
Name these Cabinet-level positions In 1989 the U.S. Senate denied the appointment of John Tower to this position. Charles Wilson was pressured to resign as CEO of General Motors after being nominated for this position⸴ which was first held by a man who is presumed to have committed suicide by jumping out of a hospital window. Caspar Weinberger held this office under Ronald Reagan until his resignation amid the Iran-Contra Affair. This position was held two separate times⸴ twenty-four years apart⸴ by Donald Rumsfeld⸴ and its longest holder was Robert McNamara. In 2015⸴ Chuck Hagel was replaced by Ashton Carter in what Cabinet-level office that was created in 1947 to replace the position of Secretary of War? - ttddSecretary of Defense [accept Defense Secretary; prompt on ˈˈSecDefˈˈ; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈSecretary of Warˈˈ]
Name these current U.S. Senators. The most senior member of the Senate is this Democrat from Vermont who was replaced as president pro tempore in January 2015. - ttddPatrick Joseph Leahy (LAY-hee)
Name these current U.S. Senators. This woman⸴ who became Mayor of San Francisco following the 1978 assassination of George Moscone and Harvey Milk⸴ is currently the senior Senator from California. - ttddDianne Goldman Berman Feinstein [or Dianne Emiel Goldman]
Name these current U.S. Senators. This politician first entered the Senate by winning an election against Richard Kimball. In September 2014⸴ this Senator battled rumors that he met and took a photograph with ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi (AH-boo BAH-kur ahl- bahg-DAH-dee). Early in his career⸴ this Senator was cleared of wrongdoing after becoming embroiled in a scandal involving Charles Keating. The memoir Faith of My Fathers recounted the military service of this man⸴ who co-authored a 2002 campaign finance reform law with Russ Feingold. More recently⸴ this Senatorial successor to Barry Goldwater ran for president on a ticket with Sarah Palin. The loser to Barack Obama in the Election of 2008 was what former Vietnam War POW and current Senator from Arizona? - ttddJohn Sidney McCain III
Name these Articles of the Constitution. The ˈˈFull Faith and Creditˈˈ clause is mentioned within this Article⸴ which notes that the Federal government will guarantee every state a republican form of government and protect them against invasion. - ttddArticle Four or 4th Article
Name these Articles of the Constitution. This Article specifies that the Constitution must be ratified by nine of the original thirteen states in order to become valid. - ttddArticle Seven or 7th Article
Name these Articles of the Constitution. The Constitution's Recommendation Clause is within this Article⸴ which notes how care shall be taken to ensure ˈˈthat laws be faithfully executed.ˈˈ The text of this Article⸴ which addresses who can negotiate treaties and appoint ambassadors⸴ was revised by both the 25th and 12th Amendments. Command over the U.S. Armed Forces is granted within this Article⸴ which also requires a regular State of the Union address. The requirements and powers of the U.S. President are outlined in what Article of the Constitution which follows the Article describing the government's legislative branch? - ttddArticle Two or 2nd Article
Answer these questions about Supreme Court cases. What 1961 Supreme Court case stated that evidence obtained illegally in violation of the 4th amendment is inadmissible in court? - ttddMapp v. Ohio
Answer these questions about Supreme Court cases. What 1969 Supreme Court case stated that freedom of expression⸴ such as wearing black armbands in support of a truce during the Vietnam War⸴ is protected free speech? - ttddTinker v. Des Moines
Answer these questions about Supreme Court cases. The issue at the heart of this Supreme Court case had previously been dismissed by the Court in the case of DeFunis v. Odegaard. Lewis Powell wrote the majority opinion in this case which cited Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. One party in this case was a 33-year old Marine corps veteran who brought suit after being denied entry to a medical school in Sacramento. Identify this 1978 Supreme Court case which struck down numerical quotas for college admissions⸴ but upheld the principle of affirmative action. - ttddRegents of the University of California v. Bakke
Identify these pieces of legislation passed by Congress. What 1883 legislation passed in the aftermath of the assassination of President Garfield dictated that bureaucratic positions within the federal government be awarded on the basis of merit⸴ not patronage? - ttddPendleton Act
Identify these pieces of legislation passed by Congress. Upton Sinclair's The Jungle led to the passage of what 1906 legislation which required labels to be placed on products detailing a complete list of ingredients? - ttddPure Food and Drug Act
Identify these pieces of legislation passed by Congress. One portion of this legislation was struck down by the Supreme Court in a suit brought by Wisconsin Right to Life. This legislation was mostly upheld in a 2003 Supreme Court case brought by Mitch McConnell. Provisions of this legislation included limits on soft money as well as restrictions on when ads could be aired by outside organizations. This legislation was introduced by a Wisconsin Democrat and an Arizona Republican. Identify this 2002 campaign finance legislation⸴ parts of which were overturned in the 2010 Citizens United case. - ttddMcCain-Feingold Act OR Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act OR BRCA
Answer these questions about the US Constitution. What Article to the US Constitution describes how a ⅔ vote in the House and Senate is required to suggest an amendment to the Constitution⸴ and that the amendment then must be approved by ¾ of the states? - ttddArticle Five
Answer these questions about the US Constitution. What Article to the US Constitution forbids religious tests as a condition of holding office and states that the US government will pay debts incurred under the Articles of Confederation? - ttddArticle Six
Answer these questions about the US Constitution. In 2019⸴ the Supreme Court case of Timbs v. Indiana ruled that a portion of this amendment applies to the states through selective incorporation of the 14th amendment. That case concerning this amendment dealt with a car that was confiscated by police as part of an arrest. The 1988 case of United States v. Bajakajian marked the first time that the Supreme Court cited this amendment to declare a fine to be excessive. Identify this amendment to the US Constitution that prohibits cruel and unusual punishments. - ttdd8th Amendment
Answer these questions about US state Governors. Since 2015⸴ Doug Ducey has served as Governor of what US state? Ducey succeeded this state's previous Governor Jan Brewer⸴ who had signed the immigration bill SB 1070 into law. - ttddArizona
Answer these questions about US state Governors. Jared Polis⸴ the first openly gay Governor in the United States⸴ currently serves as Governor of what state previously led by John Hickenlooper? - ttddColorado
Answer these questions about US state Governors. One man who served as Governor of this state attempted to avert the Civil War by crafting the Crittenden Compromise. This state's 12th Governor James Morehead is the namesake of a university in this state. Isaac Shelby was the first Governor of this state when it became the 15th US state in 1792. While campaigning in 2014⸴ the current Governor of this state caused controversy when he attended a rally that included a cockfighting match. Identify this state whose current Governor Matt Bevin challenged Mitch McConnell for a Senate seat in 2014. - ttddKentucky
Identify these current members of the US Senate. What former Mayor of Newark is currently the junior Senator from New Jersey? This man has announced his intention to seek the 2020 Democratic Presidential nomination. - ttddCory Booker
Identify these current members of the US Senate. What former city prosecutor is currently the senior Senator from Minnesota? This woman has announced her intention to seek the 2020 Democratic Presidential nomination. - ttddAmy Klobuchar
Identify these current members of the US Senate. This politician wrote an amicus brief to accompany the Supreme Court Case D.C. v. Heller while serving as Solicitor General from his home state. This man stated that he was willing to speak until he could ˈˈno longer standˈˈ prior to reading Green Eggs and Ham during a lengthy filibuster over passage of the Affordable Care Act. This incumbent narrowly defeated his Democratic opponent in a 2018 Senate election⸴ leading that opponent to declare his intention to seek the 2020 Democratic Presidential nomination. This opponent of Beto OˈRourke was accused of being the Zodiac Killer in a popular meme from 2015. Identify this junior Senator from Texas. - ttddTed Cruz
Answer these questions about US Supreme Court justices. What man who had served as Attorney General and Secretary of the Treasury under Andrew Jackson served as Chief Justice of the Court from 1836-1864? - ttddRoger Taney
Answer these questions about US Supreme Court justices. Taney was replaced as Chief Justice by what former Ohio Governor who had previously served as Treasury Secretary under Abraham Lincoln? - ttddSalmon P. Chase
Answer these questions about US Supreme Court justices. Due to the state in which they were born⸴ this justice and Harry Blackmun were often dubbed the ˈˈMinnesota Twins.ˈˈ This man wrote the majority opinion in a case which stated that de facto segregation must be addressed⸴ Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg County. This man also wrote the majority opinion in a case which ruled that executive privilege could not protect a sitting President from criminal prosecution⸴ US v. Nixon. Identify this conservative justice who led the Court from 1969-1986 following the resignation of Earl Warren. - ttddWarren Burger
Name these economic concepts related to the IS-LM model and its founder. The IS-LM model is also named for Alvin Hansen and what economist⸴ who names a type of demand in which the utility is fixed? - ttddJohn Richard Hicks
Name these economic concepts related to the IS-LM model and its founder. The vertical axis of the model is labeled for what quantity⸴ which is applied to the overall GDP labeled on the horizontal axis? - ttddInterest rate
Name these economic concepts related to the IS-LM model and its founder. The equilibrium point in the national investment curve on the IS-LM model corresponds to this specific quantity⸴ whose namesake function shifts upward with a rise in consumer expenditures. The Keynesian cross diagram plots this macroeconomic quantity on the vertical axis⸴ against GDP. A model plotting real output and price level shows a graph with a negative slope representing this value⸴ and its shifts are often attributed to an increase in spending. Identify this quantity⸴ which is often contrasted with aggregate supply. - ttddAggregate demand [prompt on partial answer]
Name these former Attorneys General. James Madison's final Attorney General was this Pennsylvania politician best known for negotiating an 1818 disarmament treaty with British minister Charles Bagot (BAG-ut). - ttddRichard Rush [accept Rush-Bagot Treaty]
Name these former Attorneys General. Serving as the Attorney General under William Henry Harrison⸴ John Tyler⸴ and Millard Fillmore⸴ this Kentuckian proposed a namesake 1860 compromise in a fruitless attempt to avoid the Civil War. - ttddJohn Jordan Crittenden [accept Crittenden Compromise]
Name these former Attorneys General. The Senate rejected this politician's nomination to the Supreme Court as a replacement for Gabriel Duvall. This man became Attorney General after the position was resigned by John Berrien⸴ and he served briefly as Andrew Jackson's Secretary of Treasury before being rejected by the Senate and replaced by Levi Woodbury. This man ruled that the writ of habeas corpus may not be suspended by the president in the case Ex parte Merryman⸴ but he is best known for ruling that the Missouri Compromise was unconstitutional in an 1857 case which also determined that African-Americans were not U.S. citizens. What Chief Justice of the Supreme Court between 1836 and 1864 delivered the majority opinion in the Dred Scott case? - ttddRoger Brooke Taney
Name the following related to economic goods. Hot dogs and hamburgers are goods with what relation⸴ which is characterized by a positive cross price elasticity of demand? - ttddsubstitute goods
Name the following related to economic goods. Hot dogs and hot dog buns are goods with what relation⸴ which is characterized by a negative cross price elasticity of demand? - ttddcomplementary goods
Name the following related to economic goods. Arnold Harberger was the first to graphically illustrate this economic quantity for a good. It is smaller for goods that have more inelastic supplies and demands. Graphically speaking⸴ this quantity can be illustrated with a shape whose vertices are defined by the equilibrium point⸴ the new willingness to pay⸴ and the new willingness to supply; thus⸴ this quantity is illustrated as a triangle in supply and demand charts. Name this micro-economic quantity which represents the amount of economic profit that is lost when an excess burden is placed on a good. - ttdddeadweight loss [accept excess burden; prompt on ˈˈallocative inefficiencyˈˈ]
Give the following related to New Deal programs. The Supreme Court case Schechter Poultry Corporation v. U.S. partially struck down the legislation that formed this New Deal agency⸴ whose motto was ˈˈwe do our part.ˈˈ - ttddNational Recovery Administration or NRA
Give the following related to New Deal programs. This 1935 legislation⸴ which was sponsored by a New York Senator⸴ sought to increase the rights of employees by legally allowing the organization of labor unions and collective bargaining⸴ among other things. - ttddNational Labor Relations Act [or NLRA or Wagner Act]
Give the following related to New Deal programs. This man's presidential aspirations were damaged by the revelation of the so-called ˈˈGuru lettersˈˈ between him and Nicholas Roerich. Economist John Kenneth Galbraith claimed that this man was ˈˈsecond only to Roosevelt as the most important figure of the New Deal.ˈˈ In one election⸴ Idaho Senator Glen Taylor was his vice presidential running mate. Nine years after his father died while serving in the position⸴ this man became Secretary of Agriculture⸴ which he would hold for the first seven years of FDR's presidency. This Progressive Party presidential candidate in the Election of 1948 rose to his highest government position as the successor to John Nance Garner. Name this Iowa politician who served from 1941 to 1945 as FDR's second vice president. - ttddHenry Agard Wallace
Answer the following about public economics. A lighthouse is a public good⸴ and thus an example of what problem⸴ in which those who did not pay for a good still benefit from it anyways? - ttddfree rider problem
Answer the following about public economics. Erik Lindahl suggested that the free rider problem be solved by taxing individuals based on this quantity⸴ which is defined as the satisfaction gained from a good. - ttddtotal utility
Answer the following about public economics. Arthur Pigou's (PEE-gohz) namesake tax is used to prevent the public from creating these situations. George Stigler studied capture theory⸴ which focuses on how third-party agencies rectify these situations. In ˈˈThe Problem of Social Costˈˈ⸴ Ronald Coase theorized that these phenomena can be solved without outside intervention. These can be positive⸴ such as the construction of an airport or a beautiful concert⸴ or negative⸴ such as loud noise or air pollution. Name these economic phenomena that affect those not involved in a financial transaction. - ttddexternality [or externalities]
Name these presidential elections. James Birney ran for president on the Liberty Party ticket for the second consecutive time in this election⸴ which was won by a ticket featuring George Dallas. - ttddPresidential Election of 1844
Name these presidential elections. James Weaver won 22 electoral votes while running for president on the People's Party ticket in this election⸴ which was won by a ticket featuring Adlai Stevenson I (the first). - ttddPresidential Election of 1892
Name these presidential elections. The third place ticket in this election included Seymour Stedman as the vice presidential candidate. One party's nominee was chosen after the sitting president blocked the nomination of his son-in-law and former Secretary of the Treasury⸴ William McAdoo. The eventual winner of this election only disclosed his adulterous affair with Carrie Phillips after his nomination was secured ˈˈin a smoke-filled room.ˈˈ Eugene V. Debs' final presidential run took place while in prison during this election⸴ which included Franklin D. Roosevelt as the vice presidential candidate for Democratic nominee James Cox. The slogan ˈˈreturn to normalcyˈˈ was used by the Republicans⸴ who won this election with a ticket featuring vice president Calvin Coolidge. Name this presidential election won by Warren G. Harding. - ttddPresidential Election of 1920
Name these former vice presidents. This man⸴ who served as a U.S. Senator from Kentucky both before and after his tenure as vice president⸴ was elected to the position when his ticket won the Election of 1948. - ttddAlben William Barkley
Name these former vice presidents. This Indiana politician was serving as a U.S. Senator upon rising to the position of vice president when his ticket won the Election of 1904. - ttddCharles Warren Fairbanks
Name these former vice presidents. While serving in the military⸴ this man helped lead a retreat that saved an American brigade from being captured after opposing troops landed at Kip's Bay. This man served one term as a U.S. Senator⸴ a position in which he was both preceded and succeeded by Philip Schuyler⸴ who was the recipient of a notable letter from Charles Cooper that included disparaging comments about this man. While vice president⸴ he presided over the impeachment of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Chase and conspired with James Wilkinson to establish a new nation in the southwest U.S. under his control. Also during his vice presidential tenure⸴ he travelled to Weehawken⸴ New Jersey to engage a political rival in a duel. Name this first vice president under Thomas Jefferson who was charged with treason and killed Alexander Hamilton. - ttddAaron Burr Jr.
Answer the following about foreign currencies. This theory of foreign currencies assumes that one unit of currency can be used to purchase the same goods in any place⸴ hence its name. - ttddpurchasing power parity [accept PPP]
Answer the following about foreign currencies. Purchasing Power Parity is often measured using this trademarked item⸴ due to its ubiquity. That measure was introduced in a whimsical article in The Economist by Pam Woodall. - ttddBig Mac [do not accept or prompt on any less specific answers]
Answer the following about foreign currencies. The Mundell-Fleming model assumes that an economy cannot maintain a fixed exchange rate with other countries⸴ free capital movement⸴ and an independent form of this scheme. Moral suasion (SWAY-zhuhn) is often defined as a component of this scheme⸴ which also includes setting the reserve ratio⸴ altering the gold standard⸴ and the purchase and selling of bonds via open market operations. The Federal Reserve theoretically alters the economy using this sort of scheme. Name this sort of economic policy that is distinguished from fiscal policy. - ttddmonetary policy
Name these men who served as Associate Justices of the Supreme Court. The majority opinion in Griswold v. Connecticut was authored by this justice⸴ who was appointed to the position by FDR in 1939 and went on to serve for 36 years⸴ the longest tenure of any Supreme Court justice. - ttddWilliam Orville Douglas
Name these men who served as Associate Justices of the Supreme Court. This man⸴ who was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1877 by Rutherford B. Hayes⸴ was the sole dissenting justice in the 1896 case Plessy v. Ferguson. One of his grandsons was appointed to the Court in 1955 by Dwight Eisenhower. - ttddJohn Marshall Harlan
Name these men who served as Associate Justices of the Supreme Court. This justice was appointed to the Court to replace the retiring Horace Gray. This justice authored the dissenting opinion in the case which ruled that the Northern Securities Company was a monopoly and must be dissolved. In one case⸴ his majority opinion upheld a Tennessee statute allowing forced sterilization and noted that ˈˈthree generations of imbeciles are enoughˈˈ; that case was Buck v. Bell. This justice delivered a dissenting opinion in Abrams v. United States shortly after authoring an opinion in which he noted that ˈˈthe most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatreˈˈ because it would ˈˈcreate a clear and present danger.ˈˈ Name this early 20th century Associate Justice who authored the unanimous majority opinion in Schenck v. United States and is sometimes known as ˈˈThe Great Dissenter.ˈˈ - ttddOliver Wendell Holmes Jr.
Name the state once represented by the following individuals in the U.S. Senate. Max Baucus⸴ Burton K. Wheeler⸴ and Thomas Walsh. - ttddMontana
Name the state once represented by the following individuals in the U.S. Senate. John Sparkman⸴ Oscar Underwood⸴ and William Rufus King. - ttddAlabama
Name the state once represented by the following individuals in the U.S. Senate. One Senator from this state died in office in 1917 after being accidentally shot while duck hunting. Another Senator from this state was sued after awarding Ronald Hutchinson one of his monthly Golden Fleece Awards for wasteful government spending. In addition to Paul Husting and William Proxmire⸴ this state was represented in the Senate by a man who teamed with the aforementioned Thomas Walsh to investigate the Teapot Dome scandal and later finished third in the Election of 1924. Another Senator from this state rose to prominence after a 1950 speech in Wheeling⸴ West Virginia in which he claimed to have a list of State Department employees who were members of the Communist Party. Robert La Follette and Joseph McCarthy were from what state currently represented in the Senate by Ron Johnson and the openly-gay Tammy Baldwin? - ttddWisconsin
Answer the following about situations in which market failure occurs. The market for high school textbooks is a classic example of what situation⸴ in which there is only one buyer⸴ thus making it so that market failure can be induced by the sellers. - ttddmonopsony [do not accept ˈˈmonopolyˈˈ]
Answer the following about situations in which market failure occurs. Cartels may cause market failure by engaging in this practice⸴ in which different prices are set for different customers. - ttddprice discrimination [or price differentiation]
Answer the following about situations in which market failure occurs. This situation is subject to the Bertrand (ˈˈBEARˈˈ-trahn) and Cournot (cor-NO) models. Prices in this situation are ˈˈsticky-upwardˈˈ since those prices can be modeled by a step function. A kinked demand curve characterizes this situation⸴ which is often exacerbated by collusion amongst the suppliers. The video game console market is one example of this situation⸴ since Sony⸴ Microsoft⸴ and Nintendo dominate revenues. Name this market situation in which a small number of sellers make a product. - ttddoligopoly
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. This amendment guarantees the voting rights of all U.S. citizens that are 18 years of age or older. - ttdd26th Amendment
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. This amendment guarantees that the States will be reserved all powers that are neither delegated to the Federal government nor prohibited to the States by the U.S. Constitution. - ttdd10th Amendment
Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. envisioned a scenario in which this amendment would be reduced ˈˈto a form of wordsˈˈ in his majority opinion for Silverthorne Lumber Company v. U.S.⸴ which introduced the ˈˈfruit of the poisonous treeˈˈ doctrine that clarifies when this amendment is violated. The Supreme Court case Weeks v. U.S. involved an interpretation of this amendment⸴ which is not violated in actions covered by the plain view doctrine or border crossing exception. The exclusionary rule protects the rights conferred by this amendment⸴ which grants ˈˈthe right of the people to be secure in their persons⸴ houses⸴ papers⸴ and effects.ˈˈ The issuance of warrants is addressed by what Bill of Rights amendment that protects ˈˈagainst unreasonable searches and seizuresˈˈ? - ttdd4th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about court proceedings. What name is given to the attorney representing the government whose job it is to try and convict a person of a crime? - ttddProsecutor (Accept DA or District Attorney)
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about court proceedings. What name is given to the law enforcement officer who calls a court to order and swears in witnesses? - ttddBailiff
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about court proceedings. What name is given to the citizens whose job it is to determine the guilt or innocence of a person who is standing trial? - ttddJuror
American Government / Economics: Identify the following articles of the Constitution. This article outlined the duties and structure of the legislative branch. - ttddArticle 1
American Government / Economics: Identify the following articles of the Constitution. This article outlined the duties and structure of the judicial branch. - ttddArticle 3
American Government / Economics: Identify the following articles of the Constitution. This article described the electoral process and outlined the duties and structures of the executive branch. - ttddArticle 2
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases which involved the fourteenth amendment. The fourteenth amendment overruled the ruling in what 1857 case that decided that African Americans were not citizens? - ttddDred Scott v. Sandford
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases which involved the fourteenth amendment. The substantive due process clause of the fourteenth amendment established the right to privacy used as a defense in what 1973 abortion case? - ttddRoe v. Wade
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases which involved the fourteenth amendment. What 1954 case used the Equal Protection Clause of the fourteenth amendment to overrule the ''Separate but Equal'' doctrine? - ttddBrown v. Board of Education
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about a senator from Texas. What senator recently gave a 21-hour speech to Congress protesting a legislative act, which included his reading of Green Eggs and Ham to his daughter? - ttddTed Cruz
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about a senator from Texas. That speech was to stall debate about whether to fund what insurance act promoted by President Obama. - ttddAffordable Care Act [prompt on ''Obamacare'']
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about a senator from Texas. Ted Cruz is the longest serving, youngest, and first Hispanic to hold what position in Texas, that is currently held by Greg Abbott. The person in this position is the top appellate lawyer in the state. - ttddSolicitor General of Texas [accept Solicitor General after Texas is said, prompt on just Solicitor General before Texas is read]
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators given their role in the Senate and the state that they serve. President pro tempore, Vermont. - ttddPatrick Leahy
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators given their role in the Senate and the state that they serve. Senate minority leader, Kentucky. - ttddMitch McConnell
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators given their role in the Senate and the state that they serve. Senate Majority Whip, Illinois. - ttddRichard Durbin
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about a landmark Supreme Court case. The court ordered that its decision in this case be carried out ''with all deliberate speed.'' Identify this Supreme Court case that ruled segregated schools unconstitutional. - ttddBrown v. Board of Education
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about a landmark Supreme Court case. Albion Tourgee represented the plaintiff in this other landmark Supreme Court case that created the ''Separate but Equal'' doctrine and was overturned by Brown v. Board of Education. - ttddPlessy v. Ferguson
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about a landmark Supreme Court case. This man served on the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit under John Kennedy and became the Solicitor General under Lyndon Johnson. Identify this man who represented the winning side in Brown v. Board of Education and served as the first black Supreme Court Justice. - ttddThurgood Marshall
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms from economics. What term from economics is defined as the amount of a product that producers and firms are willing to sell at a given price? - ttddSupply
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms from economics. What term from economics is defined as the increase in the general price level of goods in an economy over a period of time? - ttddInflation
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms from economics. The use of complementary and substitute goods affects this quantity, as an increase in the price of peanut butter will often decrease demand for jelly. Identify this economic concept that describes how the change in the price or supply of one item will impact the price or demand of another. - ttddElasticity (accept word forms)
American Government / Economics: Identify these state Governors. This Republican's former Lieutenant Governor Mitch Landrieu is currently the Mayor of New Orleans and sister of Senator Mary Landrieu. Name this Governor of Louisiana. - ttddBobby Jindal
American Government / Economics: Identify these state Governors. This Democrat served as the state Attorney General under Eliot Spitzer and also served as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development under Clinton. Name this Governor of New York. - ttddAndrew Cuomo
American Government / Economics: Identify these state Governors. This man considered Jesse Jackson as a vice presidential candidate while running for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1992. Name this governor and former Mayor of Oakland, who succeeded both Ronald Reagan and Arnold Schwarzenegger in the role of Governor of California. - ttddJerry Brown
American Government / Economics: Identify this federal legislation that has been passed since the year 2000. Roving wiretaps and surveillance of suspected terrorists were permitted by what October 2001 legislation that was passed in the wake of 9/11? - ttddPATRIOT Act
American Government / Economics: Identify this federal legislation that has been passed since the year 2000. The most significant health care overhaul since Medicare, what 2010 legislation introduced exchanges, mandates and insurance exchanges in an attempt to lower healthcare costs? - ttddPatient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Prompt on ''Obamacare'')
American Government / Economics: Identify this federal legislation that has been passed since the year 2000. This act was heavily criticized by state governments, who had to incur additional expenses while at the same time cutting their education budgets. Requiring states to provide ''high quality'' teachers to all students, identify this 2002 act passed during the Bush administration intended to overhaul federal education. - ttddNo Child Left Behind Act
American Government / Economics: Identify the following political leaders. This man lives in Gracie Mansion and attempted to limit the size of soda cups in his role as Mayor of New York City. - ttddMichael Bloomberg
American Government / Economics: Identify the following political leaders. This man has attempted to revitalize his state after Hurricane Sandy. Name this Republican Governor of New Jersey. - ttddChris Christie
American Government / Economics: Identify the following political leaders. This senator from Florida has been mentioned as a possible 2016 Republican presidential candidate as a way to gain the Hispanic vote. - ttddMarco Rubio
American Government / Economics: Identify these plans or events central to the formation of our Constitution. William Paterson put forth what plan at the Constitutional Convention, named for his home state, that called for a single-house legislature with each state represented equally? - ttddNew Jersey Plan
American Government / Economics: Identify these plans or events central to the formation of our Constitution. The compromise plan between Virginia and New Jersey that called for a two-house legislature like we know today was named for what state? - ttddConnecticut Compromise
American Government / Economics: Identify these plans or events central to the formation of our Constitution. One event that precipitated the need for the Constitutional Convention was what 1786-1787 rebellion in Massachusetts that protested mortgage foreclosures? - ttddShay's Rebellion
American Government / Economics: Identify the state from information presented on the back of its state quarter. The quarter for what state depicts a man who rode overnight on horseback to ensure that he arrived in time to vote for the Declaration of Independence, Caesar Rodney? - ttddDelaware
American Government / Economics: Identify the state from information presented on the back of its state quarter. The quarter for what state depicts a tree called the Charter Oak in which the state's charter was hidden from the English governor? - ttddConnecticut
American Government / Economics: Identify the state from information presented on the back of its state quarter. One item on this state's quarter was driven by Leland Stanford in 1869 to complete the merger of the Central Pacific and Union Pacific railroads. Identify this state whose quarter contains the motto ''Crossroads of the West'' and which depicts the Transcontinental Railroad. - ttddUtah
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about electoral politics. What word, often associated with the state of Iowa early in the Presidential election process, refers to a meeting of party delegates to select a candidate for office? - ttddCaucus
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about electoral politics. What term is used to describe Congressional elections that take place in between Presidential elections? For instance, 2014 is this kind of election between the 2012 and 2016 Presidential elections. - ttddMidterm Election
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about electoral politics. What word is used to describe a party primary in which only members of that political party can vote? - ttddClosed Primary
American Government: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Chief Justice Roger Taney wrote the decision in this case that ruled that the Missouri Compromise was unconstitutional. Identify this 1857 case that ruled African-Americans were not citizens and thus could not sue in federal court. - ttddDred Scott v. Sanford
American Government: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Justice Marshall Harlan famously said, ''The Constitution is color blind,'' in his sole dissent to this decision. Identify this 1896 case that established the ''separate but equal'' doctrine. - ttddPlessy v. Ferguson
American Government: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1966 case pertaining to the 5th Amendment stated that any statements made to the police during an interrogation are not permissible in court unless the suspect was informed of his/her rights before questing? - ttddMiranda v Arizona
American Government: Answer these questions about a collection of 85 articles and essays. What collection of essays was written to promote ratification of the Constitution and were published in The Independent Journal and The New York Packet. - ttddFederalist Papers
American Government: Answer these questions about a collection of 85 articles and essays. This man wrote just 5 of the Federalist Papers, including numbers 2-5. Identify this man who more famously served as the first Supreme Court Chief Justice. - ttddJohn Jay
American Government: Answer these questions about a collection of 85 articles and essays. Federalist Number 10 famously warned against these entities, exemplified by today's political parties? - ttddFactions
American Government: Answer these questions about Ohio government. What former Ohio Senator won reelection in 2014 to win another term as Ohio's Attorney General? - ttddMike Dewine
American Government: Answer these questions about Ohio government. What man who lost a US Senate election in 2012 to Rob Portman is the current Ohio Treasurer? - ttddJosh Mandel
American Government: Answer these questions about Ohio government. What man currently serves as the Governor of Ohio? - ttddJohn Kasich
American Government / Economics: Identify these members of Abraham Lincoln's cabinet. What man responsible for the purchase of Alaska while serving in the same position under Andrew Johnson served as Lincoln's Secretary of State? - ttddWilliam Seward
American Government / Economics: Identify these members of Abraham Lincoln's cabinet. What man who died four days after being nominated to the Supreme Court by Ulysses S. Grant served as Secretary of War under both Lincoln and Johnson? - ttddEdwin Stanton
American Government / Economics: Identify these members of Abraham Lincoln's cabinet. What man served as Lincoln's first Vice President from 1861-1865 before being replaced in that position by Andrew Johnson when Lincoln was re-elected? - ttddHannibal Hamlin
American Government / Economics: Identify these current and former leaders in Congress. What Republican from Virginia, the House majority leader, was shockingly defeated in a Republican primary by a Tea Party candidate? - ttddEric Cantor
American Government / Economics: Identify these current and former leaders in Congress. After Cantor's primary defeat, he resigned from his position as House majority leader and was replaced by what Republican representative from California? - ttddKevin McCarthy
American Government / Economics: Identify these current and former leaders in Congress. One man who indicated that he was not interested in the House Majority Leader position was what former Vice Presidential candidate from Wisconsin recently selected to head the House Ways and Means Committee? - ttddPaul Ryan
American Government: Identify these amendments to the US Constitution. What amendment to the Constitution stated that federal terms of office are to begin in January? - ttdd20th Amendment
American Government: Identify these amendments to the US Constitution. What amendment to the Constitution called for the direct election of US Senators? - ttdd17th Amendment
American Government: Identify these amendments to the US Constitution. What amendment to the Constitution stated that Congressional pay raises will not take effect until a new election of representatives had convened? - ttdd27th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Given a list of signers of the U.S. Constitution, identify which state they were all from. Pierce Butler, Charles Pinckney, and John Rutledge - ttddSouth Carolina
American Government / Economics: Given a list of signers of the U.S. Constitution, identify which state they were all from. Jonathan Dayton, William Paterson, David Brearly, and William Livingston - ttddNew Jersey
American Government / Economics: Given a list of signers of the U.S. Constitution, identify which state they were all from. One of the signees from this state was considered the financier of the American Revolution and another was the first Postmaster General. Identify this state whose signees included Robert Morris and Benjamin Franklin among many others. - ttddPennsylvania
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Presidential elections. Controversially settled by a committee was what election that saw Rutherford B. Hayes defeat Samuel Tilden? - ttddElection of 1876
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Presidential elections. The Chicago Tribune published an incorrect result for what election in which Harry Truman defeated Thomas Dewey, not the other way around? - ttddElection of 1948
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Presidential elections. Joe Lieberman was the running mate of the losing candidate in this election, and Ralph Nader was thought to have siphoned off votes from that candidate. What election saw the popular vote go to Al Gore but the electoral vote to George W. Bush? - ttddElection of 2000
American Government / Economics: Given a state's United States Senators, identify the state. Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer - ttddCalifornia
American Government / Economics: Given a state's United States Senators, identify the state. Kirsten Gillibrand and Chuck Schumer - ttddNew York
American Government / Economics: Given a state's United States Senators, identify the state. One of this state's Senators defeated Charlie Crist in an election and had a much overblown drink of water on television. Bill Nelson is the senior Senator from what state that is also home to Senator and Presidential candidate Marco Rubio? - ttddFlorida
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Constitutional amendments. Which amendment made the voting age 18? - ttddTwenty-sixth Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Constitutional amendments. Which amendment made poll taxes illegal? - ttddTwenty-fourth Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Constitutional amendments. Wayne Wheeler formulated an act that helped to bring about this amendment but that act was instead named after Volstead. Supported by the Women's Christian Temperance Union, was what Constitutional amendment that enacted prohibition and was repealed by the twenty-first amendment? - ttddEighteenth Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following U.S. Presidents from information about people that served in their Cabinet. Richard Nixon was the Vice President for what President whose Secretary of State was John Foster Dulles? - ttddDwight D. Eisenhower
American Government / Economics: Identify the following U.S. Presidents from information about people that served in their Cabinet. Dan Quayle was the Vice President for what President whose Secretary of Defense was Dick Cheney? - ttddGeorge H.W. Bush [prompt on Bush or George Bush]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following U.S. Presidents from information about people that served in their Cabinet. This President made Charles Dawes the director of the new Bureau of the Budget, and appointed William Howard Taft to the Supreme Court. Albert Fall was the Secretary of the Interior during the Presidency of what man whose Vice President was Calvin Coolidge? - ttddWarren G. Harding
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court justices. Ronald Reagan appointed what first woman to the Supreme Court in 1981? - ttddSandra Day O'Connor
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court justices. Lyndon B. Johnson appointed what first African American to the Supreme Court in 1967? - ttddThurgood Marshall
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court justices. This man heard the case Chisholm v. Georgia, and his namesake treaty opened favorable relations with Great Britain. A one-time Minister to Spain, this man turned down an offer to be Secretary of State from George Washington. Identify this first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. - ttddJohn Jay
American Government / Economics: Identify these former members of Presidential Cabinets. What Secretary of State under Bill Clinton was the first woman to serve in that position? - ttddMadeleine Albright
American Government / Economics: Identify these former members of Presidential Cabinets. What Attorney General under Bill Clinton was the first woman to serve in that position? - ttddJanet Reno
American Government / Economics: Identify these former members of Presidential Cabinets. This person investigated the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire before taking her most famous position, in which she advocated for social security and child labor reform. Identify this first female to serve in a Presidential Cabinet, the Secretary of Labor during FDR's administration. - ttddFrances Perkins
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Articles of the U.S. Constitution. Which article of the Constitution established the executive branch? - ttddArticle II
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Articles of the U.S. Constitution. Which article of the Constitution established the judicial branch? - ttddArticle III
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Articles of the U.S. Constitution. This article states that any debts or engagements that the country had beforehand are still valid. Identify this article of the Constitution that states the Constitution is the highest law and that all officers and judges must uphold it. - ttddArticle VI
American Government / Economics: Answer these economic questions. What central banking system of the United States is in charge of monetary policy? - ttddFederal Reserve Bank of the United States
American Government / Economics: Answer these economic questions. Who currently serves as the Chairman of the Federal Reserve? - ttddJanet Yellen
American Government / Economics: Answer these economic questions. Jude Wanniski named this, and George W. Bush used the word "voodoo" to describe it. Used as an argument for cutting taxes increasing government revenue is what economic curve that was famously first drawn on a cocktail napkin? - ttddLaffer Curve
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Cabinet officials. What man served as the Secretary of State under Lyndon B. Johnson and John F. Kennedy? - ttddDean Rusk
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Cabinet officials. The longest serving Secretary of State in history was what man who served in that position under Franklin D. Roosevelt? - ttddCordell Hull
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Cabinet officials. This man authorized the coup that overthrew Salvador Allende, and he won the Nobel Peace Prize alongside Le Duc Tho. The developer of the "detente" strategy with the Soviet Union was what man who served as Secretary of State under both Nixon and Ford? - ttddHenry Kissinger
American Government / Economics: Identify these people who have run on a third party ticket for the Presidency. What Texas millionaire founded the Reform Party and ran in 1992 and 1996, one time getting 18.9% of the vote? - ttddRoss Perot
American Government / Economics: Identify these people who have run on a third party ticket for the Presidency. What author of Unsafe at Any Speed has run for the Presidency several times, including on the Green Party ticket in 2000? - ttddRalph Nader
American Government / Economics: Identify these people who have run on a third party ticket for the Presidency. Big Bill Haywood and this man founded the Industrial Workers of the World, and he led the American Railway Union during the Pullman Strike. Running for President five times, was what man who once ran on the Socialist ticket while in jail for violating the Espionage Act? - ttddEugene V. Debs
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. What 1944 Supreme Court decision upheld the constitutionality of Japanese internment camps during World War II? - ttddKorematsu v. U.S. [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. What 1919 decision established the "clear and present danger" test and saw Oliver Wendell Holmes discuss "shouting fire in a crowded theater"? - ttddSchenck v. U.S. [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. Harriet Robinson's case was merged with this case that saw Montgomery Blair serve as an attorney. In a 7-2 decision, the court ruled the Missouri Compromise unconstitutional. Identify this decision in which a slave unsuccessfully sued for his freedom. - ttddDred Scott v. Sanford [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Given a state's U.S. Senators and its Governor, identify the state. Senators Gary Peters and Debbie Stabenow and Governor Rick Snyder - ttddMichigan
American Government / Economics: Given a state's U.S. Senators and its Governor, identify the state. Senators Jerry Moran and Pat Roberts and Governor Sam Brownback - ttddKansas
American Government / Economics: Given a state's U.S. Senators and its Governor, identify the state. This state saw its governor survive a recall election in 2012, and its United States Senators are Ron Johnson and the first openly lesbian Senator, Tammy Baldwin. Currently led by a man who has already dropped out of the Republican primary for President is what state led by Governor Scott Walker? - ttddWisconsin
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Governors. What man currently serves as the Governor of New York? - ttddAndrew Cuomo
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Governors. What woman currently serves as the Governor of South Carolina? - ttddNikki Haley
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Governors. After losing a Senate race to Pete Wilson in 1982, many people thought this man's political career over, and he served as his state's Governor from 1975 to 1983. Instead, he was re-elected to that same position several years later. Identify this current Governor of California. - ttddJerry Brown
American Government / Economics: Given an acronym that is a division of the United States government, expand the acronym. NLRB - ttddNational Labor Relations Board
American Government / Economics: Given an acronym that is a division of the United States government, expand the acronym. TSA - ttddTransportation Security Administration
American Government / Economics: Given an acronym that is a division of the United States government, expand the acronym. Joseph Kennedy was the first leader of this organization that investigated Nixon donor Robert Vesco. Strengthened by the Dodd-Frank Act is what government organization created during the Great Depression that regulates things such as stocks and is known as the SEC? - ttddSecurities and Exchange Commission [prompt on SEC before mentioned]
American Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. Peter Cooper and James Weaver both ran on the ticket of what party with a name referring to hard money? - ttddGreenback Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. Millard Fillmore once ran on the ticket of what party that had anti-immigrant and anti-Catholic views? - ttddKnow-Nothing Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. The New York Tribune espoused this party's views because they were shared by Horace Greeley. Horace Mann was also a member of this party. Identify this political party that included Henry Clay, William Henry Harrison, and Zachary Taylor. - ttddWhig Party
American Government / Economics: Identify the following legislative terms. What Senate tactic sees someone continuously speak in an attempt to kill a bill? - ttddFilibuster
American Government / Economics: Identify the following legislative terms. Sixty votes are needed to make what motion that can end a filibuster? - ttddCloture
American Government / Economics: Identify the following legislative terms. The state of New York brought legal action against Bill Clinton after he took one type of this action on the Balanced Budget Bill, and Abraham Lincoln did another type of this to the Wade-Davis Bill. Having line-item and pocket types, is what legal action by which the President may stop a bill. - ttddVeto
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. What 1965 decision concerned contraceptive distribution to married couples and was the precursor to the court's decision in Roe v. Wade? - ttddGriswold v. Connecticut [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. What 1961 case established the exclusionary rule after police used a fake warrant to discover obscene material in a woman's basement? - ttddMapp v. Ohio [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. Gratz v. Bollinger upheld this decision in which the plaintiff was a former Marine who had worked at NASA and was not admitted into the medical school of the namesake university. Identify this 1978 decision that ruled specific racial quotas were unconstitutional. - ttddRegents of the University of California v. Bakke [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Cabinet level departments. Which Cabinet department includes the United States Geological Survey, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the National Park Service? - ttddDepartment of the Interior
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Cabinet level departments. Which Cabinet department includes the Federal Aviation Administration and Federal Highway Administration? - ttddDepartment of Transportation
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Cabinet level departments. The Drug Enforcement Agency is a part of this department that also includes the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Identify this department overseen by the Attorney General and dealing with the enforcement of the law. - ttddDepartment of Justice
American Government: A "speedy and public" trial is guaranteed by what amendment? - ttddSixth
American Government: What amendment prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures? - ttddFourth
American Government: What amendment protects against cruel and unusual punishments? - ttddEighth
American Government: What state's flag features the word "Forward" and the year "1848"? - ttddWisconsin
American Government: What state's flag is very similar to that of Chile's? It has rectangles in red, white and blue along with a single white star. - ttddTexas
American Government: What state's flag is known as the "Bear Flag?" - ttddCalifornia
American Government: Identify the following former Governors of Ohio. What resident of Scioto County was Governor of Ohio from 2006 to 2010 and was succeeded by John Kasich? - ttddTed Strickland
American Government: Identify the following former Governors of Ohio. What man served as Governor of Ohio from 1868 to 1872, and then for another year in 1876 until he was elected president that year? - ttddRutherford B. Hayes
American Government: Identify the following former Governors of Ohio. Immediately preceding Ted Strickland as Governor of Ohio was what politician, whose 6.5% approval rating after his conviction for ethics violations may have been the lowest approval rating for a U.S. politician in history? - ttddBob Taft
American Government / Economics: Given a description, identify the constitutional amendment. What amendment allows for the collection of a federal income tax? - ttdd16th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Given a description, identify the constitutional amendment. What amendment limits the President to only serving two terms? - ttdd22nd Amendment
American Government / Economics: Given a description, identify the constitutional amendment. What amendment allows for the direct election of U.S. Senators? - ttdd17th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about President Washington's Cabinet. What man served as the first Secretary of the Treasury? - ttddAlexander Hamilton
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about President Washington's Cabinet. What man served as the first Secretary of War? - ttddHenry Knox
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about President Washington's Cabinet. What man served as the first Attorney General? - ttddEdmund Randolph
American Government / Economics: Identify these prominent Ohio politicians. What senior United States Senator from Ohio is a Democrat and has been serving since 2007? - ttddSherrod Brown
American Government / Economics: Identify these prominent Ohio politicians. What junior United States Senator from Ohio is a Republican and has been serving since 2011? - ttddRob Portman
American Government / Economics: Identify these prominent Ohio politicians. What former United States Senator from Ohio currently serves as the state's Attorney General? - ttddMike Dewine
American Government / Economics: Identify the following candidates for the Republican presidential nomination. What retired neurosurgeon and presidential candidate was the first to successfully separate conjoined twins at the head? - ttddBen Carson
American Government / Economics: Identify the following candidates for the Republican presidential nomination. What presidential candidate is from California and was the former CEO of Hewlett-Packard? - ttddCarly Fiorina
American Government / Economics: Identify the following candidates for the Republican presidential nomination. What current South Carolina U.S. Senator is running for the nomination despite having very low poll numbers? - ttddLindsay Graham
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Chief Justices of the Supreme Court. What former Governor of California presided as Chief Justice from 1953 to 1969 and was on the bench for the Brown v. Board of Education and Miranda v. Arizona cases? - ttddEarl Warren
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Chief Justices of the Supreme Court. What former Secretary of the Treasury presided as Chief Justice from 1864 to 1873 and presided over Andrew Johnson's impeachment trial? - ttddSalmon P. Chase
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Chief Justices of the Supreme Court. What former United States Assistant Attorney General under Nixon served as Chief Justice from 1986 to 2005 and was the predecessor of current Chief Justice John Roberts? - ttddWilliam Rehnquist
American Government / Economics: Identify the following economic concepts. In economics, what term describes a consumer's willingness to purchase a good or service at a specific price? - ttddDemand
American Government / Economics: Identify the following economic concepts. In economics, what term describes the total amount of a good or service that is available to consumers? - ttddSupply
American Government / Economics: Identify the following economic concepts. The Beveridge Curve deals with this concepts, and it is related to GDP by Okun's Law. This concept has cyclical, seasonal, involuntary, and frictional types. Identify this economic concept in which people looking for jobs cannot find them. - ttddUnemployment
American Government / Economics: Given one of a state's U.S. Senators, name the other U.S. Senator from that state. Chuck Schumer - ttddKirsten Gillibrand
American Government / Economics: Given one of a state's U.S. Senators, name the other U.S. Senator from that state. Bernie Sanders - ttddPatrick Leahy
American Government / Economics: Given one of a state's U.S. Senators, name the other U.S. Senator from that state. Cory Booker - ttddBob Menendez
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. This Supreme Court decision supported First Amendment rights after three students work black armbands protesting the Vietnam War to school. - ttddTinker v. Des Moines [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. This Supreme Court decision ruled that a steamboat license granted to Robert Fulton by the state of New York was unconstitutional. - ttddGibbons v. Ogden [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. This Supreme Court decision was during the Warren court and dealt with the reapportionment of electoral districts in Tennessee. - ttddBaker v. Carr [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Which amendment protects against unreasonable searches and seizures? - ttddFourth Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments to the U.S. Constitution. Which amendment protects against cruel and unusual punishment? - ttddEighth Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments to the U.S. Constitution. McDonald v. Chicago dealt with this amendment and expanded on the ruling in D.C. v. Heller, which guaranteed an individual right. A well-regulated militia is mentioned in which Constitutional amendment protecting the right to keep and bear arms? - ttddSecond Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following people vying to be our nation's next President. As of fall 2015, what outspoken businessman and billionaire was leading the Republican primary polls? - ttddDonald Trump
American Government / Economics: Identify the following people vying to be our nation's next President. Trump has consistently clashed with what other Republican nominee who is the son and brother of former Presidents? - ttddJeb Bush [prompt on Bush]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following people vying to be our nation's next President. This author of It Takes a Village was succeeded by Kirsten Gillibrand in one position and Laura Bush in another. Identify this former New York Senator, Secretary of State, and First Lady who is currently the frontrunner for the Democratic nomination. - ttddHillary Clinton
American Government / Economics: Identify the following early American political parties. Favoring the supremacy of Congressional power is what political party that expelled John Tyler once he reached the presidency? - ttddWhig Party
American Government / Economics: Identify the following early American political parties. John Adams was the only president from what first American political party? - ttddFederalist Party
American Government / Economics: Identify the following early American political parties. What party that opposed the expansion of slavery ran former president Martin Van Buren as its presidential candidate in 1848? - ttddFree Soil Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these one-time non-Hillary Clinton candidates for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency. What former U.S. Senator from 1999 to 2007 also served as the Governor of Rhode Island from 2011 to 2015? - ttddLincoln Chafee
American Government / Economics: Identify these one-time non-Hillary Clinton candidates for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency. What former U.S. Senator from Virginia served from 2007 to 2013 and was succeeded in his position by Tim Kaine? - ttddJim Webb
American Government / Economics: Identify these one-time non-Hillary Clinton candidates for the Democratic nomination for the Presidency. What former Governor of Maryland from 2007 to 2015 also previously served as the Mayor of Baltimore? - ttddMartin O'Malley
American Government / Economics: Identify these "B" terms from government and law. What word describes a legislative body that is made up of two houses, such as Congress? - ttddBicameral
American Government / Economics: Identify these "B" terms from government and law. What word describes the type of budget in which the expenditures are equal to or less than the incoming money? - ttddBalanced
American Government / Economics: Identify these "B" terms from government and law. Submitted to the Supreme Court prior to a case and presenting one side's argument in a legal case is what five-letter B word? - ttddBrief
American Government / Economics: Answer these question about numbers involved in government. How old must a person be to run for the Presidency of the United States? - ttdd35
American Government / Economics: Answer these question about numbers involved in government. In order to run for a seat in the House of Representatives, a person must be how old? - ttdd25
American Government / Economics: Answer these question about numbers involved in government. How many electoral votes are needed to win a Presidential election? Note that this number will be half of the possible electoral votes plus one. - ttdd270
American Government / Economics: Identify these currently serving United States Supreme Court justices. What Ronald Reagan appointee is usually considered the most conservative member of the court? He has used the phrases "jiggery-pokery" and "pure applesauce" in recent dissents. - ttddAntonin Scalia
American Government / Economics: Identify these currently serving United States Supreme Court justices. What George H. W. Bush appointee is the second African American to serve on the court? His nomination to the court was a contentious one because of accusations made by Anita Hill. - ttddClarence Thomas
American Government / Economics: Identify these currently serving United States Supreme Court justices. What Ronald Reagan appointee is usually considered the swing vote of the court? He authored the majority opinion in the Lawrence v. Texas and Citizens United cases. - ttddAnthony Kennedy
American Government / Economics: Given a Cabinet department, identify the person who is currently the head of that department. Secretary of Homeland Security - ttddJeh Johnson
American Government / Economics: Given a Cabinet department, identify the person who is currently the head of that department. Secretary of Transportation - ttddAnthony Foxx
American Government / Economics: Given a Cabinet department, identify the person who is currently the head of that department. Secretary of Treasury - ttddJack Lew
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments. What 1898 declaration of Congress stated that the United States would not seek long-term control of Cuba following the Spanish-American War? - ttddTeller Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments. What 1901 legislation setup for the removal of U.S. troops from Cuba and bound Cuba to lease Guantanamo Bay to the United States? - ttddPlatt Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments. Lochner v. New York and the Slaughterhouse cases dealt with this amendment that made it difficult for rebels to hold public office. This amendment has been used by the Supreme Court to apply the Bill of Rights to the states. Containing the Equal Protection Clause and guaranteeing freed slaves citizenship was what second of the Reconstruction amendments? - ttddFourteenth Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these economists. What American economist coined the term conspicuous consumption in his The Theory of the Leisure Class? - ttddThorstein Veblen
American Government / Economics: Identify these economists. What German economist wrote Politics as a Vocation and The Protestant Ethic and Spirit of Capitalism? - ttddMax Weber
American Government / Economics: Identify these economists. This man argued that licensing procedures limited entry into the medical profession and drove up costs, and he developed his "permanent income hypothesis." A Monetary History of the United States was written by what Chicago School economist and author of Capitalism and Freedom? - ttddMilton Friedman
American Government / Economics: Identify these current U.S. Senators. The current Majority Leader is what senior Senator from Kentucky? - ttddMitch McConnell
American Government / Economics: Identify these current U.S. Senators. The current President Pro Tempore is what senior Senator from Utah? - ttddOrrin Hatch
American Government / Economics: Identify these current U.S. Senators. Jack Gordon attempted to assassinate this man in 1981, and he defeated Sharon Angle in a close 2010 re-election bid. In January of 2015, he suffered injuries while exercising at home that severely damaged his right eye. Identify this Nevada Senator who is the current Senate Minority Leader. - ttddHarry Reid
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Presidents, given information about other positions they held. What President during the Mexican-American War is the only person to have served as both Speaker of the House and President? - ttddJames K. Polk
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Presidents, given information about other positions they held. What President was in office during the start of the Great Depression and had previously served as the Secretary of Commerce? - ttddHerbert Hoover
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Presidents, given information about other positions they held. This man appointed J. Edgar Hoover as the head of the FBI and had previously dealt with the Boston Police Strike while serving as Governor of Massachusetts. This man was serving as the Vice President during the Teapot Dome scandal. Identify this "silent" thirtieth President who served between Harding and Hoover. - ttddCalvin Coolidge
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Cabinet officials. What man is the the current Secretary of Housing and Urban Development? - ttddJulian Castro
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Cabinet officials. What man is the current Secretary of Transportation? - ttddAnthony Foxx
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Cabinet officials. This man famously threw several of his war decorations over the fence of the U.S. Capitol Building, and he served for over twenty years as a U.S. Senator from Massachusetts. While running for higher office, this man was targeted by ads by Swift Vote Veterans for Truth. Identify this current Secretary of State who lost the 2004 Presidential election to George W. Bush. - ttddJohn Kerry
American Government / Economics: Identify these economists. What Scottish economist proposed the idea of an invisible hand in his Wealth of Nations? - ttddAdam Smith
American Government / Economics: Identify these economists. What British economist advocated for deficit spending during the Great Depression and penned General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money? - ttddJohn Maynard Keynes
American Government / Economics: Identify these economists. David Ricardo and this man argued over the Corn Laws, and he discussed the problems of arithmetic growth versus geometric growth. Identify this author of An Essay on the Principle of Population who predicted mass starvation. - ttddThomas Malthus
American Government / Economics: Identify the following landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1803 case established judicial review and dealt with the "midnight judges" appointments? - ttddMarbury v. Madison [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1973 case legalizes abortion and revolved around Norma McCorvey? - ttddRoe v. Wade [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following landmark Supreme Court cases. This case expanded the ruling in Escobedo v. Illinois, and its defendant was mortally wounded at the La Amapola Bar in a knife fight ten years later. Revolving around a man confessing to raping a woman is what case that requires the namesake rights to be read to those being arrested? - ttddMiranda v. Arizona [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Vice Presidents. What former Minnesota Senator and Vice President under Lyndon B. Johnson lost the 1968 Presidential election to Richard Nixon? - ttddHubert Humphrey
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Vice Presidents. What former Minnesota Senator and Vice President under Jimmy Carter lost the 1984 Presidential election to Ronald Reagan? - ttddWalter Mondale
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Vice Presidents. James Wilkinson was an associate of this man, and he was charged with planning to use a private army to invade Spanish territories. The twelfth amendment was passed due to a situation involving him. Identify this Vice President of Thomas Jefferson who killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel. - ttddAaron Burr
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court Chief Justices. What Chief Justice preceded Salmon P. Chase and wrote the decision in the Dred Scott case? - ttddRoger Taney
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court Chief Justices. What Chief Justice succeeded Earl Warren and was on the bench for the Roe v. Wade case? - ttddWarren Burger
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court Chief Justices. This man ruled that Congress had the right to regulate interstate commerce in Gibbons v. Ogden, and he also presided over Dartmouth v. Woodward. Identify this Supreme Court Chief Justice who was the longest serving Chief Justice in history, and who presided over McCulloch v. Maryland and Marbury v. Madison cases. - ttddJohn Marshall
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. What 1896 decision created the doctrine of "separate but equal" and dealt with a segregated railcar? - ttddPlessy v. Ferguson [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. What 1954 case overturned Plessy and ruled that segregation in schools was unconstitutional? - ttddBrown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court decisions. This decision confirmed Powell v. Alabama. Abe Fortas represented the defense in this case that overturned Betts v. Brady. What Supreme Court decision stated a defendant's right to an attorney and dealt with a man who had broken into a Florida pool hall? - ttddGideon v. Wainwright [accept in either order]
American Government / Economics: Identify these former political parties. After a split in the Republican Party, what party nominated Theodore Roosevelt for the Presidency in 1912? - ttddBull Moose Party or Progressive Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these former political parties. In 1848, what party that opposed the expansion of slavery nominated Martin Van Buren for the Presidency? - ttddFree Soil Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these former political parties. Opposition to a speech given by Hubert Humphrey helped lead to the creation of this party that nominated Fielding Wright as their Vice Presidential candidate. Identify this party that ran Strom Thurmond for president in 1948 and opposed civil rights legislation. - ttddDixiecrats or States' Rights Democratic Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution granted women the right to vote? - ttdd19th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution granted 18 year olds the right to vote? - ttdd26th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. This amendment was the subject of the 2010 Supreme Court case McDonald v. Chicago, which extended the 14th Amendment's due process clause to the states. The case D.C. v. Heller extended this amendment to Washington DC, and this amendment is the subject of the actions of the NRA. Identify this amendment that grants Americans the right to bear arms. - ttdd2nd Amendment
American Government / Economics: Each question contains two powers given to the American government. Using choices from the following list, identify if the powers belong to: the Senate, the House of Representatives, both houses of Congress, or the President. Answers will not be ruled correct or incorrect until both answers are given. File charges for impeachment; try impeachment cases. - ttddHouse of Representatives / Senate
American Government / Economics: Each question contains two powers given to the American government. Using choices from the following list, identify if the powers belong to: the Senate, the House of Representatives, both houses of Congress, or the President. Answers will not be ruled correct or incorrect until both answers are given. Approve or reject Supreme Court appointees; nominate ambassadors - ttddSenate / President
American Government / Economics: Each question contains two powers given to the American government. Using choices from the following list, identify if the powers belong to: the Senate, the House of Representatives, both houses of Congress, or the President. Answers will not be ruled correct or incorrect until both answers are given. Proposing revenue bills; declare war. - ttddHouse of Representatives / Both Houses of Congress
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. "Separate but equal" facilities were deemed to be Unconstitutional by what 1954 case that overturned Plessy v. Ferguson? - ttddBrown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. The central figure in this case was deemed to lack standing to sue due to his status as a slave. Identify this 1857 case that was a precursor to the Civil War. - ttddDred Scott v. Sandford
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. John Marshall refused to recuse himself from ruling on this case despite his direct involvement in the incident in question. This case stemmed from the delivery of a series of appointments to the so-called "Midnight Judges". Identify this landmark 1803 ruling of the Court that established the concept of judicial review. - ttddMarbury v. Madison
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about concepts from economics. What term applies to a tax that is placed on an import or an export? - ttddTariff
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about concepts from economics. What term refers to the rate at which prices are rising within an economy? - ttddInflation
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about concepts from economics. The Phillips Curve demonstrates the inverse relationship between inflation and this quantity. This quantity comes in structural, frictional, and cyclical varieties, the latter of which refers to seasonal positions. Identify this quantity that shows the percentage of the population currently seeking work, but unable to find it. - ttddUnemployment rate
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases. What 1973 case, that was a companion to Doe v. Bolton, legalized abortions in the US? - ttddRoe v. Wade
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases. What 1896 case that was overturned by Brown v. Board of Education stated that "separate but equal" facilities were acceptable? - ttddPlessy v. Ferguson
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases. This case dealt with a decision made by Secretary of State Katherine Harris to certify results impacted by "hanging chads". The Supreme Court ruled that different methods of counting votes in different counties resulted in a violation of the Equal Protection Clause. Identify this 2000 Supreme Court case that determined the winner of the 2000 Presidential election. - ttddBush v. Gore
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Articles of Confederation. The weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation were demonstrated by what rebellion of farmers in Massachusetts that spilled across state lines? - ttddShays'(s) Rebellion
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Articles of Confederation. One power granted to Congress by the Articles was the right to enter into treaties. One prominent treaty that the US entered into was what treaty that ended the Revolutionary War? - ttddTreaty of Paris
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Articles of Confederation. This man served as President of the United States under the Articles of Confederation from 1785-1786, but oftentimes did not show up for work since he knew the position was meaningless. This man led the Massachusetts delegation to the Second Continental Congress, where he served as President. Identify this man best known for his large signature on the Declaration of Independence. - ttddJohn Hancock
American Government / Economics: Identify these current US Senators. What Ohio Senator ran for re-election in 2016 against former Governor Ted Strickland? - ttddRob Portman
American Government / Economics: Identify these current US Senators. What Florida Senator initiated stated that he would not run for re-election in 2016, but decided to do so after dropping out of the 2016 Presidential race? - ttddMarco Rubio
American Government / Economics: Identify these current US Senators. This man defeated Richard Tarrant in 2006 to win election to the Senate for the first time after serving for 16 years in the House of Representatives. This man famously filibustered an extension of the Bush era tax cuts in 2010 and is currently the longest-serving Independent in Senate history. Identify this Vermont Senator who challenged Hillary Clinton for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 2016. - ttddBernie Sanders
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Cabinet members during the Obama Administration. What African-American woman succeeded Erik Holder as US Attorney General? - ttddLoretta Lynch
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Cabinet members during the Obama Administration. What Secretary of the Treasury was criticized at his appointment for a sloppy signature that would appear on US currency? - ttddJack Lew
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Cabinet members during the Obama Administration. Team C: What former Massachusetts Senator and Democratic presidential candidate succeeded Hillary Clinton as US Secretary of State? - ttddJohn Kerry
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1917 Supreme Court case about free speech and the Espionage Act involved a man distributing leaflets encouraging men to dodge the draft? - ttddSchenck v. US
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1978 Supreme Court case upheld affirmative action as one criteria that could be used for determining admission to college? - ttddRegents of the University of California v. Bakke
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. This case stemmed from an incident involving a bombing attempt against future boxing promoter Don King. In the events that led up to this case, police arrived at a home with a fake warrant and seized pornographic materials from the basement of a woman. Identify this 1961 case that ruled that evidence obtained illegally during a search is not admissible in court. - ttddMapp v. Ohio
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about third party candidates. What candidate of the American Independent Party won 46 electoral votes in the election of 1968? - ttddGeorge Wallace
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about third party candidates. What Independent candidate won 19 percent of the popular vote in the 1992 election despite not winning any electoral votes? - ttddH. Ross Perot
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about third party candidates. This man's Vice Presidential candidate was former Mississippi Governor Fielding Wright. This man won four states and 39 electoral votes in the election of 1948 while running as a candidate of the States Rights Party. He holds the record for the longest filibuster in Senate history. Identify this man who served 48 years as a Senator from South Carolina. - ttddStrom Thurmond
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court chief justices with something in common. What man is the current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? - ttddJohn Roberts
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court chief justices with something in common. What man served as the first Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? - ttddJohn Jay
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court chief justices with something in common. This man was serving as Chief Justice when the cases Gibbons v. Ogden and McCulloch v. Maryland reached the court. This man was serving as John Adams Secretary of State when he did not deliver all appointments to the "Midnight Judges" and was later serving as Chief Justice when Marbury v. Madison reached the Supreme Court. Identify this longest serving Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. - ttddJohn Marshall
American Government / Economics: Identify these states who got new members of Congress in the November 2016 elections. Tammy Duckworth defeated incumbent Mark Kirk in what home state of Barack Obama? - ttddIllinois
American Government / Economics: Identify these states who got new members of Congress in the November 2016 elections. Todd Young held off Evan Bayh to win the Senate seat formerly occupied by the retiring Dan Coats in what home state of Mike Pence? - ttddIndiana
American Government / Economics: Identify these states who got new members of Congress in the November 2016 elections. This state's incumbent Senator David Vitter chose not to run for re-election after losing the Governor's race in 2015. Former US Senator Mary Landrieu also opted not to run for Senate in this state, which will require a runoff election on December 10th after no candidate reached a majority of votes. Identify this state where Republican John Kennedy and Democrat Foster Campbell will face off in December. - ttddLouisiana
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about state flags. What state's flag features a picture of a bear, thus leading this state to be dubbed the "Bear Flag Republic"? - ttddCalifornia
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about state flags. A smaller version of the Confederate flag can be found on the flag of what US state, that was the home of Confederate president Jefferson Davis? - ttddMississippi
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about state flags. The former flag of this state contains the words "Silver" and "Gold" pictured above the name of the state. This state's current flag contains the words "Battle Born" alongside some yellow flowers and the state flower, sagebrush. Identify this state whose cobalt blue flag flies above the city of Carson City. - ttddNevada
American Government / Economics: Identify these states from their current leaders. Andrew Cuomo is the Governor of what state that is represented in the Senate by Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand? - ttddNew York
American Government / Economics: Identify these states from their current leaders. Nikki Haley is the Governor of what state that is represented in the Senate by Tim Scott and Lindsay Graham? - ttddSouth Carolina
American Government / Economics: Identify these states from their current leaders. This state's junior senator is Jeff Flake and its Governor Jan Brewer created controversy when she signed Senate Bill 1070, requiring immigrants to keep their registration documents on them at all times. This state's senior Senator was a captured and tortured during the Vietnam War, leading Donald Trump to declare him "not a hero". Identify this state represented in the Senate by John McCain. - ttddArizona
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Keating Five Scandal. The scandal involved which body of government whose members serve six-year terms? - ttddUS Senate
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Keating Five Scandal. One prominent member of the Senate implicated in the scandal was what Arizona Republican who was the 2008 Republican Presidential nominee? - ttddJohn McCain
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Keating Five Scandal. Another Senator implicated in the scandal recently passed away at the age of 95. In 1998, while still a sitting Senator, this man became the oldest person to ever go to space when he flew aboard the space shuttle Discovery. Mike Dewine ran against this man in 1992 and used the slogan "What on earth has this man done". Identify this man who served as Ohio Senator from 1974-1999 after becoming the first American to orbit the earth. - ttddJohn Glenn
American Government / Economics: Identify these long serving US Senators. The longest serving Republican in the Senate is what Utah Senator who currently serves as President Pro Tempore? - ttddOrrin Hatch
American Government / Economics: Identify these long serving US Senators. The previous President Pro Tempore in the Senate is what Vermont Senator and colleague of Bernie Sanders who has served in Congress since 1975? - ttddPatrick Leahy
American Government / Economics: Identify these long serving US Senators. In 1993, this politician married Elaine Chao, the Labor Secretary for George W. Bush. In 2003, this man sued the Federal Elections Commission over the legality of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law. This man defeated Alison Lundergan Grimes to win reelection in 2014 and endorsed Rand Paul, the other Senator from his state, for President in 2016. Identify this current Senate Majority Leader. - ttddAddison "Mitch" McConnell
American Government / Economics: Identify the following US Cabinet departments from their leadership. What US Cabinet Department is currently led by Secretary Anthony Foxx? - ttddDepartment of Transportation
American Government / Economics: Identify the following US Cabinet departments from their leadership. What US Cabinet Department is currently led by Secretary Jeh Johnson? - ttddDepartment of Homeland Security
American Government / Economics: Identify the following US Cabinet departments from their leadership. James Blaine held this position under James Garfield, Chester Arthur, and Benjamin Harrison. William Seward held this position under Abraham Lincoln, in which capacity he negotiated the purchase of Alaska. Madeline Albright was the first woman to hold this position and Condoleezza Rice was the first African-American to hold this position. Identify this position first held by Thomas Jefferson and currently held by John Kerry. - ttddSecretary of State
American Government / Economics: Identify these American Vice Presidents. What man who famously failed to spell the word potato at a spelling bee served as Vice President under George HW Bush? - ttddDan Quayle
American Government / Economics: Identify these American Vice Presidents. What man served as Vice President under Richard Nixon until his 1973 resignation when he was replaced by Gerald Ford? - ttddSpiro Agnew
American Government / Economics: Identify these American Vice Presidents. This man was appointed to the US Senate when Hubert Humphrey resigned to become Vice President. When running for President against Ronald Reagan in 1984, this man won only Washington DC and his home state of Minnesota in an electoral college landslide. Identify this politician who served as Vice President under Jimmy Carter. - ttddWalter Mondale
American Government / Economics: Given a Supreme Court case, identify the Constitutional amendment that was the subject of that case. D.C. vs. Heller and McDonald v. Chicago - ttdd2nd Amendment
American Government / Economics: Given a Supreme Court case, identify the Constitutional amendment that was the subject of that case. Schenck v. US and Gitlow v. New York - ttdd1st Amendment
American Government / Economics: Given a Supreme Court case, identify the Constitutional amendment that was the subject of that case. This amendment was applied to physical locations by the 1967 case Katz v. United States. The 1914 case Weeks v. United States ruled that this amendment is enforced through the exclusionary rule. A case involving boxing promoter Don King was related to this amendment and introduced the "fruit of the poisonous tree" doctrine. Identify this amendment that was the subject of Mapp v. Ohio that protects against unreasonable searches and seizures. - ttdd4th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the state from information presented on the back of its state quarter. The quarter for what state depicts a man who rode overnight on horseback to ensure that he arrived in time to vote for the Declaration of Independence, Caesar Rodney? - ttddDelaware
American Government / Economics: Identify the state from information presented on the back of its state quarter. The quarter for what state depicts a tree called the Charter Oak in which the state's charter was hidden from the English governor? - ttddConnecticut
American Government / Economics: Identify the state from information presented on the back of its state quarter. The item featured on this state's quarter was financed by Thomas Durant and was the dream of Theodore Judah. Another item on this state's quarter was driven by Leland Stanford in 1869 to complete the merger of the Central Pacific and Union Pacific railroads. Identify this state whose quarter contains the motto "Crossroads of the West" and which depicts the Transcontinental Railroad. - ttddUtah
American Government / Economics: Identify these US State Governors. What man who served in the same position from 1975-1983 has served since 2011 as the Governor of California? - ttddJerry Brown
American Government / Economics: Identify these US State Governors. What man who failed to unseat Mitch McConnell in the 2013 Republican primary did capture the Governor position in Kentucky in 2015? - ttddMatt Bevin
American Government / Economics: Identify these US State Governors. This Governor became just the second Indian-American to be elected when she became governor in 2011 and is the youngest current Governor in the US. This Governor signed a bill authorizing the Confederate flag to be removed from the statehouse. Identify this current Governor of South Carolina who was selected by Donald Trump to be the US ambassador to the United Nations. - ttddNikki Haley
American Government / Economics: Identify these people that Donald Trump has proposed for his Cabinet. What woman who served as Trump's campaign manager was named "Counselor to the President"? - ttddKellyanne Conway
American Government / Economics: Identify these people that Donald Trump has proposed for his Cabinet. What former leader of the Republican National Convention was named Donald Trump's Chief of Staff? - ttddReince Priebus
American Government / Economics: Identify these people that Donald Trump has proposed for his Cabinet. In the memoir Gifted Hands, this man admitted to trying to hit his mother with a hammer and trying to stab his friend who had changed a radio station. This man was nominated by Trump to be Secretary of Housing and Urban Development after withdrawing from the Presidential race himself. Identify this former Director of Pediatric Neurosurgery at Johns Hopkins University. - ttddBen Carson
American Government / Economics: Identify the following US third parties. What anti-slavery party nominated Martin Van Buren for president in 1848? - ttddFree Soil Party
American Government / Economics: Identify the following US third parties. What party nominated Illinois Congressman Stephen Douglas as their presidential candidate in 1860? - ttddNorthern Democrats (Prompt on "Democrat" alone)
American Government / Economics: Identify the following US third parties. The Bloody Monday riots broke out at the urging of this short-lived political party, which also threw a section of the Washington Monument into the Potomac River. This party developed from the Order of the Star Spangled Banner and later nominated Millard Fillmore for president. Identify this anti-immigration, nativist party who was also known as the American Party. - ttddKnow-Nothing party OR Native American Party (before mentioned)
American Government / Economics: Identify the state that has been a party to each of the following Supreme Court cases. In 1967, the Supreme Court issued a ruling in a suit brought by Richard and Mildred Loving against what state that had banned interracial marriage? - ttddLoving v. Virginia
American Government / Economics: Identify the state that has been a party to each of the following Supreme Court cases. In 1966, Ernesto Miranda brought suit against what US state who had not informed him of his right to an attorney before questioning? - ttddMiranda v. Arizona
American Government / Economics: Identify the state that has been a party to each of the following Supreme Court cases. Arthur Goldberg wrote a dissent in a suit against this state in which he indicated that the right in question was protected by the 14th Amendment. The suit against this state stemmed from enforcement of the Comstock Law, which had banned obscenity in literature. Identify this state that was plaintiff in a 1965 case that established a right to marital privacy and set the stage for Roe v. Wade. - ttddGriswold v. Connecticut
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the election of 1984. What Republican President won re-election in 1984? - ttddRonald Reagan
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the election of 1984. The losing candidate was Walter Mondale, who had previously served as Vice President under what Democrat who served as President from 1976-1980? - ttddJimmy Carter
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the election of 1984. This figure served as US Ambassador to the UN Commission on Human Rights under Bill Clinton and represented New York in the House of Representatives from 1979-1985. This figure became the first Italian-American nominated for Vice President when selected as Walter Mondale's Vice President in 1984. Identify this first female nominee of a major party for Vice President. - ttddGeraldine Ferraro
American Government / Economics: Identify these laws passed in the 20th century. What 1964 legislation outlawed discrimination in the US on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin? - ttddCivil Rights Act of 1964
American Government / Economics: Identify these laws passed in the 20th century. What 1965 legislation meant to strengthen the 14th and 15th Amendments banned literacy tests and set up preclearance for some states with a history of disenfranchisement? - ttddVoting Rights Act of 1965
American Government / Economics: Identify these laws passed in the 20th century. Shortly before the passage of this act, a group of protesters participated in the "Capital Crawl" in Washington DC. This bill was proposed by Iowa Senator Tom Harkin and tasked the EEOC with enforcing discrimination in employment. This law was enforced differently from the Civil Rights Act in that it is only enforced when doing so was not "overly cumbersome". What 1990 legislation prohibits discrimination in the US on the basis of a disability? - ttddAmericans with Disabilities Act OR ADA
American Government / Economics: A 1913 act of Congress created what central banking system of the United States that controls US monetary policy? - ttddFederal Reserve
American Government / Economics: The Federal Reserve is currently led by what first woman to head the department? - ttddJanet Yellen
American Government / Economics: Members of the Federal Reserve are appointed by the US President and this other body. Members of this body were appointed by state legislatures until the passage of the 17th Amendment. One-third of this body is up for election every two years and this body has to approve Presidential appointments. Identify this upper chamber of the US Congress. - ttddUS Senate (prompt on Congress until "legislatures")
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Electoral College. How many electoral votes are needed in order to win the presidency in the Electoral College? - ttdd270
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Electoral College. Only two states do not award all of their electoral votes in a "winner take all" fashion. Identify one of those two states. - ttddMaine OR Nebraska
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Electoral College. The 1952 Supreme Court case of Ray v. Blair gave states the right to punish people with this status. Four people from Washington held this distinction in 2016, casting votes for Colin Powell and the Faith Spotted Eagle. Mike Padden held this distinction in 1976, casting a vote for Ronald Reagan. Identify this distinction given to members of the Electoral College who do not vote for the candidate for whom they are pledged. - ttddFaithless Elector
American Government / Economics: Translating as "you may have the body", what process suspended by Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War allows an incarcerated person to report unlawful imprisonment to a court official? - ttddHabeas Corpus
American Government / Economics: What clause of the 14th amendment was cited in Brown v. Board of Education as justification for desegregated schools and was applied to the federal government in the case of Boling v. Sharpe. - ttddEqual Protection
American Government / Economics: Boling v. Sharpe used this Constitutional clause to apply equal protection to the states. This clause is contained in both the 5th and 14th amendments and has been used for incorporating the Bill of Rights to the states. Identify this clause that prohibits vague laws and acts as a safeguard against the government denying life, liberty or property without appropriate procedures. - ttddDue Process
American Government / Economics: Given two US Senators, identify the state that they represent. Dianne Feinstein and Kamala Harris - ttddCalifornia
American Government / Economics: Given two US Senators, identify the state that they represent. Bill Nelson and Marco Rubio - ttddFlorida
American Government / Economics: Given two US Senators, identify the state that they represent. Team C: John Cornyn and Ted Cruz - ttddTexas
Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution allowed for the direct election of Senators? - ttdd17th Amendment
Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution allowed residents of Washington DC to vote in the electoral college? - ttdd23rd Amendment
Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. Toss-Up: In the Supreme Court case United States v. Bajakajian, the Court ruled that a $350,000 fine against a man violated this amendment. In the case of US v. Salerno, the court ruled that bail could only be set high enough to ensure that a defendant would appear at trial. In Furman v. Georgia, the court ruled that discriminatory measures could not be used to enact the death penalty while citing this amendment. Identify this Constitutional amendment that banned cruel and unusual punishment. - ttdd8th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. This political party in various incarnations nominated Henry Wallace and Robert LaFollette for the Presidency. Teddy Roosevelt's Bull Moose Party was also an incarnation of this political party. - ttddProgressive Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. This nineteenth century political party opposed the expansion of slavery and nominated Martin Van Buren for the Presidency in 1848. - ttddFree Soil Party
American Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. Toss-Up: Hugh Lawson White belonged to this party, which at different times had factions such as the "Silver Gray" faction, the "Cotton" faction led by Edward Everett, and the "Conscience" faction led by Horace Mann. One member of this party spoke for two hours immediately before Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, and the designer of the American System belonged to this party. Identify this political party that contained members such as Zachary Taylor, Daniel Webster, and Henry Clay and was in opposition to Andrew Jackson. - ttddWhig Party or Whigs
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about an economic institution. What Central bank of the United States is responsible for the country's monetary policy? - ttddFed OR Federal Reserve
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about an economic institution. In February 2018, what man was appointed by Donald Trump to replace Janet Yellen as chair of the Federal Reserve? - ttddJerome Powell
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about an economic institution. Toss-Up: This man contributed articles to Ayn Rand's book Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal and he was preceded in his best-known post by Paul Volcker. This man was criticized by Congressional Democrats for his push to privatize Social Security, and he was blamed by many for allowing the 2007 recession. Identify this second-longest serving Chair of the Federal Reserve who preceded Ben Bernanke in the post. - ttddAlan Greenspan
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the 2018 Senatorial elections. Republican Governor Rick Scott held off the incumbent Bill Nelson to win a Senate seat in what US state? - ttddFlorida
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the 2018 Senatorial elections. Democrat Joe Manchin held off a challenge from Republican Patrick Morrisey to win reelection to the Senate in what state that President Trump won by 42% in the 2016 election? - ttddWest Virginia
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the 2018 Senatorial elections. Toss-Up: In 1984, this man founded a private equity firm known as Bain Capital. In 1994, this man lost a race for the US Senate in another state to Ted Kennedy. In 2002, this man led the committee to bring the Winter Olympics to Salt Lake City before losing a 2012 election to Barack Obama. Identify this former Massachusetts governor and 2012 Presidential candidate who was recently elected to the US Senate from Utah? - ttddWillard "Mitt" Romney
Government / Economics: Identify these American Presidents from events in their administration. The Camp David Accords were signed during the administration of what President who created the Departments of Energy and Education? - ttddJimmy Carter
Government / Economics: Identify these American Presidents from events in their administration. The Helsinki Accords were signed during the administration of what President who officially ended US involvement in the Vietnam War? - ttddGerald Ford
Government / Economics: Identify these American Presidents from events in their administration. Toss-Up: In addition to facing the Door Rebellion, this man saw his Cabinet members Thomas Gilmer and Abel Upshur killed in an explosion aboard the USS Princeton. The Aroostook War was ended during this man's Presidency by the Webster-Ashburton Treaty, and this man was nicknamed "His Accidency". Identify this successor of William Henry Harrison who was the 10th US President. - ttddJohn Tyler
Government and Economics: Answer the following about political appointments made by Donald Trump. What female governor of South Carolina was Trump's choice to be Ambassador to the United Nations? - ttddNikki Haley
Government and Economics: Answer the following about political appointments made by Donald Trump. What Exxon Mobil CEO was Trump's choice for Secretary of State? - ttddRex Tillerson
Government and Economics: Answer the following about political appointments made by Donald Trump. Toss-Up: This author of Fed Up! was originally elected into his state's House of Representatives as a Democrat. This man and partner Emma Slater were eliminated after the third week of the 2016 edition of Dancing with the Stars. During a 2012 Republican primary debate, this man was unable to name the three Cabinet departments he would eliminate if elected President. This man was ironically named to lead one of those departments, the Department of Energy. Identify this former Texas governor. - ttddRick Perry
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about Ohio government. Since 2009, what has been Ohio's state fruit? - ttddTomato OR Pawpaw
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about Ohio government. What song often heard at Ohio State football games is Ohio's state rock song? - ttdd"Hang on Sloopy"
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about Ohio government. The act designating this item as a state symbol was passed in 1904 after the assassination of President William McKinley, who supposedly was given one of these items while running for the House of Representatives. Dianthus caryophyllus is the scientific name of what item that is the state flower of Ohio? - ttdd(Red or Scarlet) Carnation
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about state flags. What US state's flag contains the state's name beneath the picture of a bear, leading to its nickname of the "Bear Flag" republic? - ttddCalifornia
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about state flags. After Georgia introduced a new state flag in 2003, what southern state remains the only US state to incorporate the Confederate battle flag into the current design of their state flag? - ttddMississippi
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about state flags. Benny Benson designed the flag of this state, whose dark blue background is meant to depict the sky and the state flower, the forget-me-not. This state's flag contains eight stars which are arranged to form the Big Dipper and Polaris. The star representing Polaris is the largest on what state's flag, representing its position as the largest state by area and northernmost state in the US? - ttddAlaska
American Government / Economics: Identify these agencies and organizations within the US government. What agency within the Department of Homeland Security is responsible for overseeing airport screenings and providing federal air marshals on planes? - ttddTransportation and Security Administration OR TSA
American Government / Economics: Identify these agencies and organizations within the US government. What agency within the Department of Health and Human Services is responsible for ensuring that product labels on consumable goods are accurate and that prescription pharmaceuticals are managed properly? - ttddFood and Drug Administration OR FDA
American Government / Economics: Identify these agencies and organizations within the US government. In 2005, George W. Bush caused controversy when he stated that the head of this agency, Michael Brown, was doing a "heckuva job". This agency was within the Department of Housing and Urban Development until 1979 when it was made an independent agency through an executive order. Brock Long is the current director of this agency which manages Urban Search and Rescue Operations and is currently within the Department of Homeland Security. Identify this agency that responds to earthquakes and hurricanes. - ttddFederal Emergency Management Agency OR FEMA
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases. Thurgood Marshall represented the plaintiff in what 1954 case that ended school segregation? - ttddBrown v. Board of Education
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases. Escobedo v. Illinois expanded upon the ruling from what case that dealt with a suspect who provided a confession without being read his rights? - ttddMiranda v. Arizona
American Government / Economics: Identify these Supreme Court cases. Justice Frank Murphy's dissent in this case stated that it ''falls into the ugly abyss of racism'', marking the first use of racism in a Supreme Court decision. This case stemmed from Executive Order 9066 which created military zones in the aftermath of the attack on Pearl Harbor. Identify this 1944 Supreme Court case which upheld Japanese internment in the wake of World War II. - ttddKorematsu v. US
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the founding of states. James Oglethorpe founded what American state that was originally designed for individuals who had been in debtors prison? - ttddGeorgia
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the founding of states. George and Cecil Calvert founded what American state that was established as a safe-haven for Catholics in the colonies? - ttddMaryland
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the founding of states. The Bloody Tenent of Persecution was written by the founder of what would become this state. This state faced the Great Swamp Fight during a conflict that became known as King Philip's War. As a colony, this future state faced Dorr's Rebellion, and this state was home to Anne Hutchinson and was founded by Roger Williams. Identify this smallest state in the US that has its capital at Providence. - ttddRhode Island
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about government powers. What name is given to a power that the Constitution specifically grants to one branch of the national government? - ttddExpress powers
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about government powers. What name is given to powers that are inferred from express powers that allow Congress to carry out its function? - ttddImplied powers
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about government powers. The power to collect taxes is an example of what type of power that the Constitution grants to both the federal government and the states? - ttddConcurrent powers
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment allows for the collection of a federal income tax? - ttdd16th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment limits the President to only serving two terms? - ttdd22nd Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. This amendment was advocated for in the Omaha Platform, which was created by the Populist Party in the late 1800s. This amendment overrode Article 1, Section 3 of the Constitution and stated that during a vacancy in the Senate, state governors could appoint temporary vacancies. Identify this amendment that allowed for the direct election of US Senators. - ttdd17th Amendment
Government and Economics: Identify the following amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution guarantees the right to vote to citizens who are at least 18 years of age? - ttdd26th amendment
Government and Economics: Identify the following amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution abolished the use of poll taxes? - ttdd24th amendment
Government and Economics: Identify the following amendments. Toss-Up: Clauses of this amendment have been applied to the states though the Supreme Court cases Cantwell v. Connecticut and Gitlow v. New York. The Lemon Test forbids "excessive government entanglement" when concerning this amendment, while the Miller Test concerns this amendment and obscenity. The Citizens' United case protects campaign donations as a result of this amendment. Identify this amendment to the US Constitution that protects assembly, press, religion, and speech. - ttdd1st amendment
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about Articles of the US Constitution. What article of the US Constitution articulates the judicial branch? - ttddArticle III
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about Articles of the US Constitution. What article of the US Constitution discusses amending the Constitution? - ttddArticle V
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about Articles of the US Constitution. This article to the Constitution guaranteed that the slave trade would not be banned until at least 1808. This article describes bills of attainder and ex post facto laws and states that the establishment of a post office was an enumerated power. Identify this article of the Constitution that created the legislative branch. - ttddArticle I
Government and Economics: Identify these individuals who have served as US Ambassadors. What daughter of our 35th President served as the US Ambassador to Japan under President Obama? - ttddCaroline Kennedy
Government and Economics: Identify these individuals who have served as US Ambassadors. What man who was serving as Secretary of Defense during the 9/11 terror attacks served as the US Ambassador to NATO under Richard Nixon and Gerald Ford? - ttddDonald Rumsfeld
Government and Economics: Identify these individuals who have served as US Ambassadors. Toss-Up: Details from this man's diary revealed that he was concerned about being on an al-Qaeda hit list. This man died from smoke inhalation during an event that also killed Sean Smith, Glen Doherty, and Tyrone Woods. This man's 2012 death was the first for a sitting ambassador since Adolph Dubs in 1979. Identify this man who was US ambassador to Libya during the Benghazi attacks. - ttddChristopher Stevens
American Government / Economics: Identify these Cabinet members. What former CEO of Exxon Mobil is the current Secretary of State? - ttddRex Tillerson
American Government / Economics: Identify these Cabinet members. What charter school advocate and political donor is the current Secretary of Education? - ttddBetsy DeVos
American Government / Economics: Identify these Cabinet members. Coretta Scott King wrote a letter opposing this man's appointment to the US District Court in 1986. Elizabeth Warren was censured for opposing this man's nomination in February 2017. After suggesting that President Trump fire FBI Director James Comey, this man recused himself from the investigation of Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Identify this current US Attorney General. - ttddJeff Sessions
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution granted women the right to vote? - ttdd19th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. What amendment to the US Constitution granted 18-year olds the right to vote? - ttdd26th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify these Constitutional amendments. This amendment was limited in the 1876 Supreme Court case of Cruikshank v. United States. The 2008 case of DC v. Heller extended this amendment to Washington DC and the 2010 case of McDonald v. Chicago extended this amendment to the states. The NRA is most concerned about what amendment that states that citizens have the right to bear arms? - ttdd2nd Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the US state from its governor. Jerry Brown - ttddCalifornia
American Government / Economics: Identify the US state from its governor. Greg Abbott - ttddTexas
American Government / Economics: Identify the US state from its governor. Martin Van Buren, Grover Cleveland, and Teddy Roosevelt all served as Governor of this state. This state's Governor Eliot Spitzer resigned in 2008 over allegations that he used prostitutes and was replaced by the nation's first legally blind Governor, David Patterson. Identify this state that is currently led by Governor Andrew Cuomo from Albany. - ttddNew York
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Supreme Court justices. What man appointed to the court by George W. Bush is the current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court? - ttddJohn Roberts
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Supreme Court justices. What man appointed by Donald Trump is the most recent Justice to be added to the US Supreme Court? - ttddNeil Gorsuch
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Supreme Court justices. After being added to the DC Circuit Court by Ronald Reagan in 1982, this justice was promoted to the Supreme Court by Reagan in 1986 and was approved unanimously. This man called the Supreme Court's decision to uphold Obamacare "jiggery-pokery" and "pure applesauce". Identify this Italian-American Supreme Court justice who died after quail-hunting in Texas in 2016. - ttddAntonin Scalia
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms from economics. What term refers to goods such as peanut butter and jelly that are often used alongside one another? - ttddComplementary goods
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms from economics. What term refers to goods such as Pepsi and Coke that are often used in place of one another. An increase in price for one of these goods leads to an increase in demand for the other. - ttddSubstitute goods
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms from economics. During the 1976 Presidential campaign, Gerald Ford's slogan was to Whip "this concept" Now. This concept is measured by comparing the price of a basket of goods today versus a base year by the Consumer Price Index. The Phillips Curve plots this concept against unemployment. Identify this concept that describes the general rise of prices over time. - ttddInflation
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court justices. The first female Supreme Court justice was what former Arizona state Senator who was appointed to the court by Ronald Reagan? - ttddSandra Day O'Connor
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court justices. The longest serving Chief Justice of the US Supreme Court in history was what man who served as Chief Justice from 1801-1835 and oversaw the Marbury v. Madison case? - ttddJohn Marshall
American Government / Economics: Identify these former Supreme Court justices. This man was a Vice Presidential candidate in 1948 when he ran on a ticket with Thomas Dewey. This man was serving as Governor of California when he was tapped by Dwight Eisenhower in 1953 to replace Fred Vinson as Chief Justice. This man was serving as Chief Justice during the Brown v. Board, Gideon v. Wainwright, and Miranda v. Arizona decisions. Identify this former Chief Justice who headed the Commission to investigate the death of John F. Kennedy. - ttddEarl Warren
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1963 Supreme Court decision required the state to provide attorneys to defendants who cannot afford them? - ttddGideon v. Wainwright
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1961 Supreme Court decision ruled that evidence obtained illegally is inadmissible in court cases? - ttddMapp v. Ohio
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Justices Hugo Black and John Harlan wrote dissents in this case stating that "symbolic speech" was not Constitutionally protected. This case stemmed from a group of students supporting the Christmas Truce during the Vietnam War by wearing black armbands. Identify this 1969 case that addressed freedom of speech by students in schools. - ttddTinker v. Des Moines
Government and Economics: Given details about a Senator elected in 2016, identify his/her state. Maggie Hassan won a close race against the Republican incumbent Kelly Ayotte in what New England state? - ttddNew Hampshire
Government and Economics: Given details about a Senator elected in 2016, identify his/her state. Todd Young defeated the former Democratic Senator Evan Bayh to take the seat vacated by Dan Coats in what midwestern state? - ttddIndiana
Government and Economics: Given details about a Senator elected in 2016, identify his/her state. Toss-Up: The junior senator from this state gave a primetime speech attacking Mitt Romney at the 2012 Democratic National Convention and that Senator stated "it's not a measure of your capacity" after failing her state's bar exam. The new junior Senator from this state defeated fellow Democrat Loretta Sanchez in the 2016 general election to replace the retiring Barbara Boxer. The first Senator of Indian descent, Kamala Harris, represents what state where she serves alongside Dianne Feinstein? - ttddCalifornia
Government and Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Police officers presented a fake search warrant in what landmark 1961 case which stated that illegally obtained evidence is not admissible in court? - ttddMapp v. Ohio
Government and Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Congress was determined to be the only body with power over interstate commerce in what case about Robert Fulton receiving a New York steamboat license? - ttddGibbons v. Ogden
Government and Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Toss-Up: The original defense attorney in this case was Dr. John Emerson, and the majority opinion in this case cited a previous ruling in Strader v. Graham. The plaintiff in this case "lacked standing" despite living in the Wisconsin territory prior to this case reaching the Court. The Missouri Compromise was ruled unconstitutional in what case from the Taney court which ruled that former slaves were not American citizens. - ttddDred Scott v. Sandford
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Cabinet departments. Alex Acosta is the current Secretary of what Cabinet department responsible for overseeing unemployment benefits and OSHA? - ttddDepartment of Labor
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Cabinet departments. Ben Carson is the current Secretary of what Cabinet department responsible for overseeing mortgage-based groups such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac? - ttddDepartment of Housing and Urban Development (Accept HUD)
American Government / Economics: Identify these current Cabinet departments. Among the agencies overseen by this Cabinet department are the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the National Park Service. The current Secretary of this Cabinet department was a former Representative from the state of Montana. Identify this Cabinet department responsible for the management and conservation of federal land. - ttddDepartment of the Interior
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators. What senior Senator from Florida was an astronaut aboard the Space Shuttle Columbia before entering politics as a Democrat? - ttddBill Nelson
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators. What junior Senator from Kentucky is an opthamologist who was recently assaulted by an acquaintance in his Bowling Green, Kentucky home? - ttddRand Paul
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators. This politician won election to the Senate in 2008 by defeating Republican incumbent Norm Coleman. A member of the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, this man authored a book critical of Fox News entitled Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them. Prior to entering politics, this man spent fifteen years as a writer and actor on Saturday Night Live. Identify this former Senator from Minnesota, who was recently forced to resign amid sexual harassment allegations. - ttddAl Franken
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Constitution. What article of the Constitution defines the legislative branch of government? - ttddArticle I
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Constitution. What article of the Constitution defines the judicial branch of government? - ttddArticle III
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Constitution. During one of these in 1964, Lyndon Johnson declared a "War on Poverty". During one of these in 2002, George W. Bush identified the "Axis of Evil". The arrival of the President to one of these events is always announced by the Sergeant at Arms. This event is required by Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution, which indicates that the President must periodically update Congress. Identify this annual speech given by the President. - ttddState of the Union Address
American Government: Answer these questions about powers that have been held by the President. The president can use this veto power to reject a bill if he receives the bill with less than ten days in the Congressional session. Identify this type of veto in which a bill dies without a Presidential signature at the end of a Congressional session. - ttddPocket Veto
American Government: Answer these questions about powers that have been held by the President. The president no longer has the power to perform this type of veto in which he strikes sections of a bill but passes the rest. Identify this veto power that is still held by many state governors. - ttddLine-Item Veto
American Government: Answer these questions about powers that have been held by the President. One of these numbered 9066 ordered the internment of Japanese citizens during World War II, while another was used by Harry Truman to integrate the military. Identify these documents issued by presidents that have the force of law. - ttddExecutive Order
American Government / Economics: Identify these winning Presidential candidates from the people they defeated to win office. What President defeated Walter Mondale to win reelection after earlier having defeated Jimmy Carter in 1980? - ttddRonald Reagan
American Government / Economics: Identify these winning Presidential candidates from the people they defeated to win office. What President twice defeated Adlai Stevenson to win the elections of 1952 and 1956 before being succeeded by John F. Kennedy? - ttddDwight Eisenhower
American Government / Economics: Identify these winning Presidential candidates from the people they defeated to win office. In one election, this man defeated a longtime Kansas Senator who had been the losing Vice Presidential nominee in 1976, Bob Dole. In another election, this man defeated an independent candidate who won 18.9 percent of the vote while running with Admiral John Stockdale. Identify this man who defeated Ross Perot and the incumbent George HW Bush to win the Presidency in 1992. - ttddBill Clinton
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms that are important to the lawmaking process. What name is given to the procedure by which voters can reject a measure that has been passed by the state legislature. This procedure is contrasted with an initiative. - ttddReferendum
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms that are important to the lawmaking process. What name is given to the procedure by which voters can remove an elected official from office? Wisconsin governor Scott Walker survived one of these in 2012. - ttddRecall
American Government / Economics: Identify these terms that are important to the lawmaking process. This procedure was first used in the US Senate in 1919 in relation to the Treaty of Versailles. At least sixteen Senators are needed in order to initiate this action, and if this action is successful, the presiding officer controls debate. Democrats introduced the "nuclear option" to initiate this procedure in 2013. Identify this process by which 60 Senators can end a filibuster. - ttddCloture
American Government: The Supreme Court has dealt with numerous cases pertaining to free speech. What 1919 Supreme Court case held that criticism of the draft was not acceptable free speech because it presented a "clear and present danger"? - ttddSchenck v. United States
American Government: The Supreme Court has dealt with numerous cases pertaining to free speech. What 1964 Supreme Court case protected the media from being sued for libel since no "actual malice" was shown in the information they presented? - ttddNew York Times v. Sullivan
American Government: The Supreme Court has dealt with numerous cases pertaining to free speech. This case overturned a previous ruling in Austin vs. Michigan Chamber of Commerce and was brought to the court after advertisements for Fahrenheit 9/11 were allowed to air. This case centered on an attempt by a conservative lobbying group to show a video critical of Hillary Clinton in violation of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. Identify this 2010 Supreme Court case that held that limitations on campaign advertisements within a month of an election were a violation of free speech. - ttddCitizens United v. FEC (or Citizens United case)
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions pertaining to Ohio Government. What former Senator and possible Republican gubernatorial candidate is the current Ohio Attorney General? - ttddMike Dewine
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions pertaining to Ohio Government. What man who was the youngest ever Speaker of the Ohio House of Representatives is the current Ohio Secretary of State? - ttddJon Husted
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions pertaining to Ohio Government. This man defeated Democrat James Campbell to become Governor with the assistance of his campaign manager Mark Hanna. Four years later, this man handily defeated William Jennings Bryan to win the Presidential election of 1896. An event involving this man at the 1901 Pan-American Exposition led the Secret Service to begin protecting the President. Identify this President who was assassinated by Leon Czolgosz. - ttddWilliam McKinley
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1963 Supreme Court decision required the state to provide attorneys to defendants who cannot afford them? - ttddGideon v. Wainwright
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. What 1961 Supreme Court decision ruled that evidence obtained illegally is inadmissible in court cases? - ttddMapp v. Ohio
American Government / Economics: Identify these landmark Supreme Court cases. Justices Hugo Black and John Harlan wrote dissents in this case stating that "symbolic speech" was not Constitutionally protected. This case stemmed from a group of students supporting the Christmas Truce during the Vietnam War by wearing black armbands. Identify this 1969 case that addressed freedom of speech by students in schools. - ttddTinker v. Des Moines
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Constitution. What Article of the Constitution addresses the structure of the executive branch? - ttddArticle Two
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Constitution. What Article of the Constitution addresses how many states are needed to ratify the document? - ttddArticle Seven
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Constitution. This concept was limited by the Takings Clause of the 5th Amendment, which added the words "just compensation" to the concept of "public use". The Supreme Court case of Kelo v. New London extended this practice to economic development in order to raise government revenues. Identify this concept discussed in the Constitution that allows government to seize private property if they pay the owner fair market value for their land. - ttddEminent Domain
American Government / Economics: Identify the following lesser-known amendments. What amendment created a line of succession if the position of President or Vice President is vacant? - ttdd25th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following lesser-known amendments. What amendment did not allow for the federal government to quarter soldiers within one's personal home? - ttdd3rd Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following lesser-known amendments. Gregory Watson pushed for the ratification of this amendment, and along with the Congressional Appointment Amendment, this amendment was one of two that did not make it into the initial Bill of Rights. This amendment took over 200 years to become ratified, and it states that pay raises for Congress cannot go into effect until after an election. Identify this last amendment to the Constitution. - ttdd27th Amendment
American Government: Answer these questions about Ohio government. How many members serve in the Ohio House of Representatives? - ttdd99
American Government: Answer these questions about Ohio government. How many members serve in the Ohio Senate? - ttdd33
American Government: Answer these questions about Ohio government. Tossup: This man was wounded five times during the Civil War, including being shot in the head at the Battle of Cedar Creek. This man established the charter for The Ohio State University while serving as Governor and he feuded with Roscoe Conkling for control of the New York Customs House. As President, this man vetoed the Bland-Allison Act and he won election by defeating Samuel Tilden. Identify this man whose election as President in 1876 led to the end of Reconstruction. - ttddRutherford B. Hayes
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about economists. What Chicago school economist advocated for monetarism and partnered with Anna Schwartz to write A Monetary History of the United States? - ttddMilton Friedman
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about economists. What British economist argued for government spending to offset recessions, coined the term aggregate demand, and opposed reparations against post World War I Germany in his book The Economic Consequences of the Peace? - ttddJohn Maynard Keynes
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about economists. Tossup: This economist examined the growing corporate domination of the world in his book The Theory of Business Enterprise. This economist's namesake "goods" see a decrease in demand when their price decreases due to a perception of low quality. In this man's best-known work, he dubbed the purchase of luxury goods to display one's economic power as "conspicuous consumption". Identify this Norwegian-American economist who wrote The Theory of the Leisure Class. - ttddThorstein Veblen
American Government: Answer these questions about Supreme Court decisions. What 1964 Supreme Court decision established the principle of "actual malice" that must be met before a libel suit can be filed? - ttddNew York Times v. Sullivan
American Government: Answer these questions about Supreme Court decisions. What 1963 Supreme Court decision required that states provide an attorney to defendants who are unable to afford one? - ttddGideon v. Wainwright
American Government: Answer these questions about Supreme Court decisions. Tossup: The ruling in this case overturned a precedent set in Baker v. Nelson and was granted certiorari by the Supreme Court due to conflicting opinions in the lower courts. This case stemmed from an Ohio lawsuit about the right to visit John Arthur, a man dying from ALS, and it expanded upon a previous court ruling in the case of US v. Windsor. Identify this 2015 Supreme Court decision that legalized same sex marriage. - ttddObergefell v. Hodges
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Presidency of Richard Nixon. What man served as Nixon's first Vice President before resigning in 1973 and being replaced by Gerald Ford? - ttddSpiro Agnew
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Presidency of Richard Nixon. Prior to serving as Vice President from 1953-1961, Nixon had served in the US House and Senate as a representative of what state? - ttddCalifornia
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Presidency of Richard Nixon. Negotiations for this agreement began in November 1969 in Helsinki, Finland and were concluded in 1972 when Nixon met with Leonid Brezhnev in Moscow. This agreement was followed by a similarly named agreement signed in 1979 by Brezhnev and Jimmy Carter. Identify this agreement between the US and Soviet Union that froze the number of ballistic missile launchers held by the two nations. - ttddStrategic Arms Limitation Treaty OR SALT I
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators and Representatives who were prominent players in the 2017 Republican Tax Bill. The bill initially passed the Senate 51-49, with the lone holdout being what Tennessee Republican who voted against the bill due to the increases it would cause to the deficit? - ttddBob Corker
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators and Representatives who were prominent players in the 2017 Republican Tax Bill. The final version of the bill passed the Senate 51-48, with Corker supporting the bill. The lone member of the Senate to not vote was what man who had recently flown to his home state after being released from the hospital? - ttddJohn McCain
American Government / Economics: Identify these US Senators and Representatives who were prominent players in the 2017 Republican Tax Bill. During a celebration of the passage of the tax bill, President Trump praised this man, but caused controversy when he stated that this man had chosen "a hell of a way to lose weight". This representative of Louisiana's first district is the current House Majority Whip and was injured in an event on June 14, 2017. Identify this man who was shot during a Congressional softball practice, the first sitting member of Congress to be shot since 2011. - ttddSteve Scalise
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the State of Ohio. What is the state insect of Ohio? - ttdd7-Spotted Ladybug
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the State of Ohio. What is the state beverage of Ohio? - ttddTomato juice
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the State of Ohio. This man served as Governor of Ohio from 1868-1872. While serving in the Civil War, this man was wounded five times, the most seriously in 1862 at the Battle of South Mountain. As President, this man vetoed the Bland-Allison Act, thus upholding the gold standard in the US. Identify this man who defeated Samuel Tilden in the election of 1876 to become the 19th US President. - ttddRutherford B. Hayes
American Government / Economics: Identify these laws that have been passed over the past century. What Obama-era act allowed for undocumented children under the age of 15 to apply for conditional residency and eventually permanent residency in the US? - ttddDREAM Act or Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors Act
American Government / Economics: Identify these laws that have been passed over the past century. What George W. Bush-era policy required schools to track student learning to ensure sufficient growth among students? - ttddNo Child Left Behind Act
American Government / Economics: Identify these laws that have been passed over the past century. This law was the subject of the Supreme Court cases King v. Burwell and Burwell v. Hobby Lobby. The Supreme Court upheld a portion of this law as a Constitutionally protected tax, while also ruling that states could not be forced to amend Medicare. Identify this law that was the subject of the case NFIB v. Sebelius, a 2010 piece of legislation that extended health care to all Americans. - ttddPatient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Accept Obamacare)
American Government / Economics: Answer the following questions about current US Senators. The Secretary of Labor, Elaine Chao, is the wife of what US Senator from Kentucky? - ttddMitch McConnell
American Government / Economics: Answer the following questions about current US Senators. What Senator from Virginia was the losing Vice Presidential nominee in the election of 2016? - ttddTim Kaine
American Government / Economics: Answer the following questions about current US Senators. This current Senator oversaw the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, as the chair of the Congressional Oversight Panel, and in 2014, this Senator published the memoir, A Fighting Chance. During the 2016 Presidential Election campaign, Donald Trump called this Senator a "nasty woman" and "Pocahontas". What woman is currently serving as Massachusetts' senior Senator? - ttddElizabeth Warren
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Articles of Confederation. How many votes was each state entitled to in the legislature under the Articles of Confederation? - ttddOne
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Articles of Confederation. Article 11 of the Articles of Confederation allowed for what entity to join the United States if they so desire? - ttddCanada OR Quebec (accept either underlined answer)
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about the Articles of Confederation. This man was elected President of the United States under the Articles of Confederation, but did not serve his 1785-1786 term because he was not interested in the position. James Otis defended this man after he was put on trial after the British seized his boat, the Liberty. This former Governor of Massachusetts was the President of the Second Continental Congress, allowing him to perform his best-known action. Identify this man remembered for his large signature on the Declaration of Independence. - ttddJohn Hancock
American Government / Economics: Answer the following questions about the US Senate. What Texas senator picked Carly Fiorina as his Vice President during his bid for the Republican Presidential nomination in 2016? - ttddTed Cruz
American Government / Economics: Answer the following questions about the US Senate. The current Senate Minority Leader is what Democrat from New York? - ttddChuck Schumer
American Government / Economics: Answer the following questions about the US Senate. The Deputy version of this position has only been held by Hubert Humphrey in 1977, and John Tyler is the only President to have formerly served in this position. The holder of this position is third in the line of succession to the President after the Vice President and Speaker of the House. Identify this powerless leadership position in the Senate currently held by Orrin Hatch that goes to the longest serving member of the majority party. - ttddPresident Pro Tempore
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court Justices. What current justice who has been serving since 2009, is the first Hispanic person to serve on the US Supreme Court? - ttddSonia Sotomayor
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court Justices. What current justice who has been serving since 1993, is the second-ever female appointee to the US Supreme Court? - ttddRuth Bader Ginsburg
American Government / Economics: Identify the following Supreme Court Justices. This Supreme Court justice argued on behalf of the states in the case, United States v. Microsoft, and initially, this man was appointed to replace Sandra Day O'Connor. This man wrote the majority opinion in Shelby County v. Holder, and though he is typically not a swing vote, he sided with the liberal justices in the case of NFIB v. Sebelius that upheld key provisions of Obamacare. Identify this man who is the current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. - ttddJohn Roberts
American Government / Economics: Identify these states from their former Senators. What state has been represented in the Senate by Martin Van Buren, Aaron Burr, and Hillary Clinton? - ttddNew York
American Government / Economics: Identify these states from their former Senators. What state has been represented in the Senate by Stephen Douglas, Carol Moseley Braun, and Barack Obama? - ttddIllinois
American Government / Economics: Identify these states from their former Senators. An early Senator from this state was a financier who signed the Declaration of Independence and Constitution named Robert Morris. US President James Buchanan served as a Senator from this state, as did John Heinz, the grandson of the ketchup mogul. More recent Senators from this state included Arlen Specter and Rick Santorum. Despite serving as a Senator from Delaware, Joe Biden was born in what state's city of Scranton? - ttddPennsylvania
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments to the US Constitution. What Reconstruction amendment banned the practice of slavery except if it was a punishment for a crime? - ttdd13th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments to the US Constitution. What other Reconstruction amendment extended equal protection to those previously affected by involuntary servitude? - ttdd14th Amendment
American Government / Economics: Identify the following amendments to the US Constitution. One clause in this amendment was further defined in the Supreme Court case, Waters-Pierce Oil Company v. Texas. Another clause of this amendment was subject of the cases Gregg v. Georgia and Furman v. Georgia. This amendment abolished the uses of excessive bail and excessive fines, but it is better known for banning the use of cruel and unusual punishment. Identify this Bill of Rights amendment. - ttdd8th Amendment
Government / Economics: Identify these current or former Supreme Court justices. What woman appointed by Ronald Reagan in 1981 was the first female to ever serve on the US Supreme Court? - ttddSandra Day O'Connor
Government / Economics: Identify these current or former Supreme Court justices. The third woman appointed to the Supreme Court was what woman appointed by Barack Obama in 2009 who is also the court's first Hispanic justice? - ttddSonia Sotomayor
Government / Economics: Identify these current or former Supreme Court justices. Toss-Up: This justice ruled that only Congress had the power to suspend habeas corpus in his ruling in Ex Parte Merryman. This justice also ruled that the Supreme Court could not rule on enforcement of Article 4 of the Constitution in his ruling in Luther v. Borden. This man's best-known decision dealt with a slave who sued for his freedom from a northern state. Identify this former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court who wrote the decision in Dred Scott v. Sanford. - ttddRoger Taney
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about legislation passed by Congress. What legislation was passed by Congress in 1919 to enforce the 18th Amendment by establishing the prohibition of alcohol? - ttddVolstead Act
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about legislation passed by Congress. What 1993 legislation named for Ronald Reagan's Press Secretary mandated federal background checks on firearm purchases? - ttddBrady Bill
Government / Economics: Answer these questions about legislation passed by Congress. Toss-Up: The Supreme Court case Thornburg v. Gingles set forth a test as to whether or not the second section of this Act had been violated. That section prohibits dilution or denial of the title action. This act was the subject of a 2013 case that declared a "coverage formula" in this act was unconstitutional. That case was Shelby County v. Holder. Identify this act passed during the administration of Lyndon Johnson to reinforce the 14th and 15th amendments. - ttddVoting Rights Act of 1965
Government / Economics: Identify these Presidential platforms. This platform saw the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Identify this platform that sought a war on poverty and was championed by Lyndon B. Johnson. - ttddGreat Society
Government / Economics: Identify these Presidential platforms. This platform promised to create the Federal Housing Administration. Identify this platform that sought to put a man on the moon and was coined by John F. Kennedy. - ttddNew Frontier
Government / Economics: Identify these Presidential platforms. Toss-Up: This platform opened the Dardanelles as a free passage to the ships and commerce of all nations. While Head of the United States Committee on Public Information, George Creel attempted to push for this initiative. This platform advocated for the creation of an independent Poland and restored portions of Belgium and France. Identify this platform that was pushed by Woodrow Wilson that also called for the reduction of national armaments. - ttddFourteen Points
Government / Economics: Identify these Presidential election years. Harry Truman defeated Thomas Dewey despite an incorrect prediction from the Chicago Tribune in what election year? - ttddElection of 1948
Government / Economics: Identify these Presidential election years. Herbert Hoover defeated the first Catholic candidate for President, Al Smith, in what election year? - ttddElection of 1928
Government / Economics: Identify these Presidential election years. Toss-Up: Thomas Hendricks and William Wheeler were the Vice Presidential nominees during this election year that saw Roscoe Conklin withdraw his nomination to stop James Blaine. Twenty electoral votes were disputed in this election that was decided when southern states agreed to support the Republican nominee in return for the end of Reconstruction. Identify this election year that saw Samuel Tilden lose to Rutherford B. Hayes. - ttddElection of 1876
Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. Jill Stein was the 2016 Presidential candidate of what political party concerned primarily with environmental issues? - ttddGreen Party
Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. Gary Johnson was the 2016 Presidential candidate of what political party that promotes smaller government but increased focus on civil liberties? - ttddLibertarian Party
Government / Economics: Identify these political parties. Toss-Up: A biracial faction within this party in the 19th century was known as the "Black and Tans." The first Presidential nominee of this political party was nicknamed "The Pathfinder" and led expeditions into the American West. In addition to John C. Fremont, this Party was represented in Congress by a "Radical" branch in the 1860s. Ulysses S. Grant was a nominee of what political party whose first elected President was Abraham Lincoln? - ttddRepublican Party
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about US Cabinet Departments. The Bureau of Indian Affairs and the National Park Service are agencies within what Cabinet department whose current Secretary is Ryan Zinke? - ttddDepartment of the Interior
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about US Cabinet Departments. The US Census Bureau and the National Weather Service are agencies within what Cabinet department whose current Secretary is Wilbur Ross? - ttddDepartment of Commerce
American Government / Economics: Answer these questions about US Cabinet Departments. Tossup: George W. Bush attempted to appoint Bernard Kerik to head this Cabinet department, but he withdrew his nomination after revelations that he employed illegal immigrants in his home. Former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge was the first man to lead this department that underwent substantial changes under the leadership of Michael Chertoff. John Kelly was appointed to head this department in 2017, but resigned to become Trump's Chief of Staff. Identify this Cabinet department headed by Kirstjen Nielsen that was established in the aftermath of 9/11. - ttddDepartment of Homeland Security
Government / Economics: Identify these amendments to the US Constitution. What amendment to the Constitution gave the federal government the right to collect a federal income tax? - ttdd16th Amendment
Government / Economics: Identify these amendments to the US Constitution. What amendment to the Constitution ended the use of poll taxes during voting? - ttdd24th Amendment
Government / Economics: Identify these amendments to the US Constitution. Toss-Up: The first case to come before the Supreme Court about this amendment was the 1876 case US v. Cruikshank. This amendment was incorporated to the states in the Supreme Court decision McDonald v. Chicago, after having previously been extended to the nation's capital in the case of DC v. Heller. Identify this amendment important to the NRA that protects the right to keep and bear arms. - ttdd2nd Amendment
Government / Economics: Identify these former members of the US Senate. What man resigned as a Senator from the state of Alabama in 2017 to become the US Attorney General? - ttddJeff Sessions
Government / Economics: Identify these former members of the US Senate. What Arizona Senator passed away in 2018 after a year of battling brain cancer? - ttddJohn McCain
Government / Economics: Identify these former members of the US Senate. Toss-Up: Prior to being elected to Congress, this man parodied Sean Hannity and Rush Limbaugh in his book Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them. Governor Mark Dayton appointed Lieutenant Governor Tina Smith to fill the remainder of this man's term after he was forced to resign in 2017 following allegations made against him by Leeann Tweeden. Identify this former Saturday Night Live star who recently resigned as a Senator from Minnesota. - ttddAl Franken
Government / Economics: Identify these Chief Justices of the US Supreme Court. What man served as the first Chief Justice of the US Supreme Court? - ttddJohn Jay
Government / Economics: Identify these Chief Justices of the US Supreme Court. What man appointed by George W. Bush is the current Chief Justice of the US Supreme Court? - ttddJohn Roberts
Government / Economics: Identify these Chief Justices of the US Supreme Court. Toss-Up: This man was the running mate of Thomas Dewey during the 1948 Presidential election and was also elected Governor of California three times. This successor of Fred Vinson wrote the majority opinion in the case of Loving v. Virginia. Identify this Chief Justice of the Supreme Court headed an activist court during the cases of Miranda v. Arizona and Brown v. Board of Education. - ttddEarl Warren
Government / Economics: Identify these current US Senators. What only Republican Senator to vote against the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh has represented Alaska in the US Senate since 2002? - ttddLisa Murkowski
Government / Economics: Identify these current US Senators. What junior Senator from Kentucky is an ophthalmologist who in 2017 was assaulted by his neighbor Rene Boucher, suffering multiple rib fractures? - ttddRand Paul
Government / Economics: Identify these current US Senators. Toss-Up: In 2017, this man became the first sitting Senator to testify against another when he spoke in opposition to the nomination of Jeff Sessions as Attorney General. After serving three terms as mayor of Newark, this man defeated Steve Lonegan to win a Senate seat in 2014. Identify this first African-American Senator in New Jersey history, a potential Democratic Presidential nominee in 2020. - ttddCory Booker
American Government / Economics: Identify these economic schools named for geographic locations. An economic school based in this European country includes thinkers like Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek. That economic school focuses on changes in the market because of individual decisions and what von Mises called praxeology. - ttddAustria
American Government / Economics: Identify these economic schools named for geographic locations. Amartya Sen and George Akerlof taught at the school of economics in this European city, where Jomo Kenyatta studied under Bronislaw Malinowski. - ttddLondon
American Government / Economics: Identify these economic schools named for geographic locations. A professor of one school in this city names a theorem in which a Pareto efficient transaction can be reached by bargaining, despite the presence of any externalities. Another professor of this economic school wrote Capitalism and Freedom and collaborated with Anna Schwartz on A Monetary History of the United States. A group of economists from this city advised the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet. Identify this Midwestern school where Ronald Coase and Milton Friedman taught at its namesake university. - ttddChicago
American Government / Economics: Name these words or phrases that appear in the U.S. Constitution. Give the exact four word phrase that fills in the blank in the following excerpt that begins Article 4: "[blank] shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of every other State." - ttddFull faith and credit
American Government / Economics: Name these words or phrases that appear in the U.S. Constitution. Give the exact two word phrase that fills in the blank in the following excerpt from Article 6: "no [blank] shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States." - ttddReligious test
American Government / Economics: Name these words or phrases that appear in the U.S. Constitution. Tossup: Section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment notes that Representatives are to be determined based on state population "excluding [these individuals] not taxed." An unarmed group of these people were attacked by John (*) Chivington during the Sand Creek Massacre. The Supreme Court ruled in (**) Worcester (WOOS-ter) v. Georgia that state laws did not apply in lands controlled by these people, who were subjected to a namesake 1830 "Removal Act" signed by Andrew Jackson. Name these people subjected to forced marches known as the (***) Trail of Tears. - ttddIndians [accept Native Americans or American Indians or indigenous Americans or indigenous people or natives; accept Cheyenne or Arapaho after (*); accept Cherokee after (**); accept Five Civilized Tribes or Chickasaw or Choctaw or Creek Confederacy or Muscogee or Seminole after (***)]