Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning novels of the 1920s. Dallas tries to arrange a reunion between his father Newland Archer and Newland's former lover Ellen Olenska in this 1921 winner by Edith Wharton. - ttddThe Age of Innocence
Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning novels of the 1920s. Sinclair Lewis rejected the 1926 Pulitzer for this novel⸴ in which the title doctor is sent to St. Hubert to test his cure for the plague before devoting his life to research with fellow McGurk Institute colleague Terry Wickett. - ttddArrowsmith
Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning novels of the 1920s. One character in this novel is a former interrogator for the Inquisition who raises and coaches the singer La Perichole. After a bad infection kills his twin⸴ Manuel lies to Abbess Madre Maria about his identity and agrees to sail with Captain Alvarado before dying in the central event of this novel. The Marquesa of Montemayor⸴ Pepita⸴ Uncle Pio⸴ and Jaime are the other lives detailed in a book by the Franciscan monk Brother Juniper⸴ who witnesses their deaths. Name this 1927 novel about the collapse of the title structure⸴ a novel by Thornton Wilder. - ttddThe Bridge of San Luis Rey
Answer these questions about characters who fish. In this Hemingway novella⸴ the fisherman Santiago attempts to reel in a large marlin but it is eaten by sharks. - ttddThe Old Man and the Sea
Answer these questions about characters who fish. This captain of the Pequod lost a leg to the title whale that he vows vengeance against in Melville's Moby Dick. - ttddCaptain Ahab
Answer these questions about characters who fish. In one novel by this author⸴ a group of tuna fishermen crash a party in which Sanskrit poetry from Black Marigolds is read to residents of the title street of sardine factories. In addition to that novel about Mack's efforts to throw two parties for Doc⸴ this author wrote a work in which Carlson's shooting of Candy's dog foreshadows one of the protagonists mercy-killing his rabbit-loving friend. In his most famous novel⸴ this author wrote about the Joad family leaving the Dust Bowl in hopes of farming the title fruit. What author wrote about George and Lennie in Of Mice and Men and about the Great Depression in The Grapes of Wrath? - ttddJohn Steinbeck
Identify the following short stories. The title character of this James Thurber story imagines himself doing heroic actions like facing a firing squad and flying a fighter plane against Germany. - ttddˈˈThe Secret Life of Walter Mittyˈˈ
Identify the following short stories. In this O. Henry story⸴ Della sells her hair to buy a watch chain for her husband Jim⸴ but Jim has sold his watch to buy a comb for Della. - ttddˈˈThe Gift of the Magiˈˈ
Identify the following short stories. At one point in this story⸴ a character takes time to listen to the ˈˈthe beating of the dragon flies' wings⸴ the strokes of the water spiders' legsˈˈ after splashing into some water. The protagonist of this story wonders what a sharp beating sound is though it turns out to only be his own watch. While running toward his home and his wife⸴ the protagonist of this story feels a sharp pain on his neck. Earlier⸴ that protagonist of this story had been tricked by a Federal scout into attempting to burn the title structure but was caught and sentenced to death. Peyton Farquhar is hanged by a group of Union soldiers in what short story by Ambrose Bierce? - ttddˈˈAn Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridgeˈˈ
Name these Edgar Allan Poe short stories. The narrator of this story attempts to kill the title animal⸴ which may be a reincarnation of his former pet Pluto⸴ but ends up killing his wife with an axe instead. - ttddˈˈThe Black Catˈˈ
Name these Edgar Allan Poe short stories. In this story⸴ Montresor lures Fortunato into the catacombs⸴ which eventually become his tomb⸴ by promising to let Fortunato taste the title wine. - ttddˈˈThe Cask of Amontilladoˈˈ
Name these Edgar Allan Poe short stories. The narrator of this story claims that the costume of the title character had ˈˈout Heroded Herod.ˈˈ This story describes musicians laughing and smiling after the chiming of a black clock every hour. One character rushes from a blue room with a dagger in pursuit of another character in a room with scarlet windows and black tapestries. Of the one thousand guests at the central event in this story⸴ Prince Prospero is the first victim of a masked figure. Identify this story in which all of the guests at a ball mysteriously die of the title disease. - ttddˈˈThe Masque of the Red Deathˈˈ
Name these American poets. This poet wrote ˈˈlet be be the finale of seemˈˈ in ˈˈThe Emperor of Ice Creamˈˈ and began another famous poem with ˈˈAmong 20 snowy mountains the only moving thing was the eye ofˈˈ the title bird. - ttddWallace Stevens
Name these American poets. This poet wrote about ˈˈa splash quite unnoticedˈˈ in ˈˈLandscape with the Fall of Icarusˈˈ and about a narrator apologizing for eating plums that were ˈˈso sweet / so coldˈˈ in another poem. - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
Name these American poets. This poet described the ˈˈbreathing figures [that] learnt from thee to liveˈˈ in a poem addressed to a young painter⸴ S.M. This poet wishes that the addressee of another poem ˈˈproceed with virtue on thy sideˈˈ and wishes that addressee ˈˈA crown⸴ a mansion⸴ and a throne that shine with gold unfading.ˈˈ In another poem⸴ this author wrote that ˈˈsome view our sable race with scornful eyeˈˈ though she still claims that ˈˈTwas mercy brought me from my pagan landˈˈ about her experience being kidnapped and enslaved. Name this eighteenth century American poet of ˈˈOn Being Brought from Africa to Americaˈˈ and ˈˈTo His Excellency General Washington.ˈˈ - ttddPhillis Wheatley
Answer these questions about the Fireside poets. This poet describes the ˈˈlarge and sinewy handsˈˈ of the title character in ˈˈThe Village Blacksmith.ˈˈ He also described the love triangle between Priscilla Mullins⸴ John Alden⸴ and Miles Standish in another poem. - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
Answer these questions about the Fireside poets. This poet writes that the title bird's ˈˈwings have fanned . . . the cold⸴ thin atmosphereˈˈ in ˈˈTo a Waterfowl.ˈˈ This poet describes death as an ˈˈinnumerable caravanˈˈ in his most famous poem. - ttddWilliam Cullen Bryant
Answer these questions about the Fireside poets. The speaker of this poem claims that ˈˈmany an eye has danced to seeˈˈ this poem's subject⸴ which was ˈˈonce red with heroes' blood.ˈˈ The speaker entreats that the title object be given ˈˈto the god of stormsˈˈ and commands ˈˈNail to the mast her holy flag.ˈˈ After this poem was published⸴ its historical subject was preserved as a monument. Beginning ˈˈAy tear her tattered ensign downˈˈ is what poem titled for the nickname of the ship USS Constitution⸴ by Oliver Wendell Holmes? - ttddˈˈOld Ironsidesˈˈ
Name these literary families from American plays. One member of this family⸴ Biff⸴ stole a fountain pen from Mr. Oliver⸴ who doesn't remember this family's patriarch Willy. What family is featured in Death of a Salesman? - ttddThe Lomans
Name these literary families from American plays. One member of this family⸴ Walter⸴ has plans to use a ten thousand dollar insurance check to open a liquor store with Willie Harris⸴ while Lena has plans to buy a house in the white-only Clybourne Park. What family is featured in A Raisin in the Sun? - ttddThe Youngers
Name these literary families from American plays. One member of this family is repulsed by the sexual advances of Josie Hogan in A Moon for the Misbegotten. In another play⸴ one member of this family blames her mental state on a lack of sleep caused by a foghorn outside her window⸴ and that character later drags her wedding gown around the house. Dr. Hardy diagnoses another member of this family⸴ Edmund⸴ as having tuberculosis⸴ which is blamed on this family's patriarch for not paying enough money for good doctors. This family includes the mentally unstable Jamie and the morphine-addicted Mary. What family is central to Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey into Night? - ttddThe Tyrones
Name these bodies of water in American literature Henry David Thoreau lived in solitude on a small cottage on this pond⸴ where he spent only twenty-eight dollars over the course of two years. - ttddWalden Pond
Name these bodies of water in American literature Kate Chopin's The Awakening ends with Edna Pontellier walking into this body of water to drown herself. Earlier Edna had vacationed with her Creole husband Leonce at Grand Isle on this body of water. - ttddThe Gulf of Mexico
Name these bodies of water in American literature Steve Baker⸴ Magnolia Hawks⸴ Julie Dozier⸴ and Gaylord Ravenal are all performers on the Cotton Blossom on this body of water in Edna Ferber's Show Boat. The narrator agrees to retrieve ten thousand dollars for Karl Ritter before finding out the town the money is hidden in has been washed away in a memoir named for this body of water⸴ in which Mr. Bixby teaches the protagonist how to work on a steamboat. On Jackson's Island⸴ the title character of another work about this river meets Miss Watson's escaped slave Jim. Name this river that Mark Twain wrote about in Life on [this river] and Huckleberry Finn. - ttddThe Mississippi River
Identify these American cities given some references to them in literature. One character from this city has relationships with Sophie⸴ Thea⸴ and Stella. That novel⸴ The Adventures of Augie March⸴ begins ˈˈI am an American⸴ [this city] born.ˈˈ This city is also called ˈˈHog Butcher of the Worldˈˈ in another work. - ttddChicago⸴ Illinois
Identify these American cities given some references to them in literature. Fareek Fanon is accused of assaulting a white woman in this city in Tom Wolfe's A Man in Full. Scarlett O'Hara is living in this city when it is besieged by Union soldiers in Gone with the Wind. - ttddAtlanta⸴ Georgia
Identify these American cities given some references to them in literature. A white character from this city is disturbed by the lynching of a young black man in Ralph Ellison's story ˈˈA Party Down at the Square.ˈˈ In a novel partially based on interviews with people from this city⸴ Topsy is educated by the supposedly-kindly Augustine St. Clare. After escaping to this city from Sweet Home⸴ Sethe's home at 124 Bluestone Road in this city is haunted by the title character. In what city is Toni Morrison's Beloved set⸴ a city that many escaped slaves passed through after crossing from Kentucky to Ohio? - ttddCincinnati⸴ Ohio
Identify these poems by Robert Frost. The title character of this poem is Silas⸴ a laborer who has returned to work for Mary and Warren. This poem defines home as the place where ˈˈthey have to take you in.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈThe Death of the Hired Manˈˈ
Identify these poems by Robert Frost. In this poem⸴ a buzz saw cuts open the hand of a boy who does not survive the amputation surgery. This poem takes its title from a line Lady Macbeth utters after imagining Duncan's blood on her hands. - ttddˈˈOut Out-ˈˈ
Identify these poems by Robert Frost. This poem notes how we ˈˈforthwith found salvation in surrenderˈˈ and possessed ˈˈwhat we were still unpossessed by.ˈˈ This poem's final lines describe a certain entity as ˈˈstill unstoried⸴ artless⸴ unenhanced.ˈˈ That entity in this poem is described as being ours in ˈˈMassachusetts⸴ in Virginia.ˈˈ Frost changed its last line from ˈˈsuch as she would becomeˈˈ to ˈˈsuch as she will becomeˈˈ for a famous recitation of this poem. This poem begins ˈˈThe land was ours before we were the land's.ˈˈ Because of the sun's glare⸴ Frost recited this poem instead of reading ˈˈDedicationˈˈ at a famous event. What poem did Frost recite at John F. Kennedy's inauguration? - ttddˈˈThe Gift Outrightˈˈ
Name these short story collections by American authors. This Bradbury collection contains the story ˈˈThere Will Come Soft Rainsˈˈ about an automated house left empty after its residents were killed in the nuclear war that leads the remainder of humanity to colonize the title place. - ttddThe Martian Chronicles
Name these short story collections by American authors. This story cycle by Sherwood Anderson ends with ˈˈDeparture⸴ˈˈ in which George Willard decides to leave the title small town. - ttddWinesburg⸴ Ohio
Name these short story collections by American authors. In one story in this collection⸴ after five nights without electricity⸴ a wife reveals that she is buying an apartment for herself⸴ and her husband reveals that he had held their stillborn baby in the hospital months before. In addition to ˈˈA Temporary Matter⸴ˈˈ in another story in this collection⸴ a silver cocktail dress causes a seven year old to call Miranda ˈˈsexy⸴ˈˈ which she remembers her lover Dev whispering to her in a Mapparium. In the title story in this collection⸴ Bobby is saved from a group of violent monkeys by the Indian tour guide Mr. Kapasi. Name this short story collection by Jhumpa Lahiri. - ttddThe Interpreter of Maladies
Name these African-American authors. This author published the autobiographical Gather Together in My Name⸴ a sequel to a previous autobiography that detailed this author's childhood in Stamps⸴ Arkansas with her brother Bailey. - ttddMaya Angelou
Name these African-American authors. This author wrote about Sandy Rogers' coming of age in Kansas in Not Without Laughter but is perhaps better known for poems such as ˈˈTheme for English Bˈˈ and ˈˈI⸴ Too⸴ Sing America.ˈˈ - ttddLangston Hughes
Name these African-American authors. This author published a collection of essays and speeches that examined the anthropological work of Zora Neale Hurston and the life of Flannery O'Connor. In addition to In Search of Our Mother's Gardens⸴ this author wrote a story in which the uppity Dee visits her mother and demands to inherit a set of quilts that had been promised to her sister Maggie. That story is ˈˈEveryday Use.ˈˈ This author's most famous novel opens with the line ˈˈYou better not never tell nobody but Godˈˈ and details an affair between the jazz songstress Shug Avery and the wife of Mister⸴ Celie. What author won the 1983 Pulitzer Prize for The Color Purple? - ttddAlice Walker
Name these poems. The title character of this poem⸴ set ˈˈby the shores of Gitchee Gumee⸴ˈˈ is the son of the West Wind and the lover of Minnehaha. That title character of this poem is eventually converted to Christianity by missionaries to his tribe. - ttddThe Song of Hiawatha
Name these poems. The dying narrator of this poem notices a ˈˈblue uncertain stumblingˈˈ sound of the title creature before she notes that ˈˈthe windows failed and then I could not see to see.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈI Heard a Fly Buzz When I Diedˈˈ
Name these poems. This poem describes visions of ˈˈBlake-light tragedies among scholars of war.ˈˈ ˈˈSolitudes of skyscrapers and pavementsˈˈ and ˈˈpeyote pipes and drumsˈˈ are called ˈˈholyˈˈ in a footnote to this poem. The dedicatee of this poem⸴ famous for Report from an Asylum⸴ inspired such lines as ˈˈyou accuse your doctors of insanity and plot the Hebrew socialist revolutionˈˈ and a line in which potato salad was thrown at ˈˈCCNY lecturers on Dadaism.ˈˈ That dedicatee is Carl Solomon. What poem opens by describing the ˈˈstarving hysterical naked[ness]ˈˈ of the ˈˈbest minds of my generation⸴ˈˈ which the speaker claims were ˈˈdestroyed by madness⸴ˈˈ a Beat poem by Alan Ginsberg? - ttddˈˈHowlˈˈ
Name these notable characters from American novels. This divorcee pursues affairs with Jake Barnes⸴ Robert Cohn⸴ and Pedro Romero in Ernest Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises. - ttddLady Brett Ashley [accept either]
Name these notable characters from American novels. This character discovers the existence of a rocket with serial number 00000 that harbors the mysterious Schwarzgerat component in Thomas Pynchon's Gravity's Rainbow. - ttddTyrone Slothrop [accept either]
Name these notable characters from American novels. In a lecture titled ˈˈHow [this character] Was Born⸴ˈˈ this character's creator claimed that he was inspired by his job at the South Side Boy's Club. After his girlfriend tells him about the criminals Leopold and Loeb⸴ this character attempts to hatch a ransom scheme for a character by framing Jan Erlone⸴ but the scheme falls apart and ends in the murder of Bessie Mears. In the section Flight⸴ this character is chased across some rooftops by a vigilante mob that eventually turns him in to be tried for the accidental homicide of his employer's daughter Mary Dalton. Name this protagonist of Richard Wright's Native Son. - ttddBigger Thomas [accept either]
Name these American authors of trilogies. This author wrote about the fictional Margo Dowling and Mary French and the real Sacco and Venzetti in The 42nd Parallel⸴ 1919⸴ and Manhattan Transfer⸴ all part of his USA Trilogy. - ttddJohn Dos Passos [prompt on ˈˈPassosˈˈ]
Name these American authors of trilogies. This author wrote about John Grady Cole and Billy Parham working as ranchers near the demarcation between New Mexico and Mexico in All the Pretty Horses⸴ The Crossing⸴ and Cities of the Plain in his Border Trilogy. - ttddCormac McCarthy
Name these American authors of trilogies. In one novel by this author⸴ the Landlord and the Merchant both send money and a son to their brother the Tiger⸴ who uses the resources to fight neighboring warlords such as the Leopard. In another novel by this author⸴ the protagonist meets Mary⸴ the daughter of Dr. Wilson⸴ during his time pursuing an agriculture degree⸴ but cannot stand the thought of kissing her and eventually returns to his home country to fight in a revolution. A trilogy by this author that includes those two novels⸴ Sons and A House Divided⸴ begins with a novel that centers on the rickshaw operator Wang Lung and his wife O-Lan. What author wrote about a Chinese farming family in The House of Earth trilogy⸴ which includes The Good Earth? - ttddPearl S. Buck
Name these American plays. In this David Mamet play⸴ Shelley Levene and David Moss are convicted of breaking into their real estate office and stealing leads from their manager John Williamson. - ttddGlengarry Glen Ross
Name these American plays. In this play by Tony Kushner⸴ Louis Ironson's partner Prior discovers that he has AIDS and begins to be visited by the title heavenly creatures. - ttddAngels in America
Name these American plays. One character in this play misidentifies a bouquet of snapdragons as pansies⸴ rosemary⸴ and violence after forcefully coming on to another character who has been made a ˈˈhouseboy.ˈˈ A story about a young man swerving his car to hit a porcupine is told twice in this play⸴ with the second story concluding with the death of a fictional son. In a game of ˈˈGet the Guests⸴ˈˈ one character in this play reveals that Honey's hysterical pregnancy forced Nick into marriage. The title phrase is drunkenly sung by Martha to George in what play about an awkward party between two couples by Edward Albee? - ttddWho's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Name these female poets. This Akron-born poet described ˈˈa deep breath and the canary in bloomˈˈ in ˈˈDusting⸴ˈˈ a poem in her collection Thomas and Beulah. - ttddRita Dove
Name these female poets. This feminist wrote about ˈˈbright topaz denizens of a world of greenˈˈ in ˈˈAunt Jennifer's Tigersˈˈ and about an action taken after ˈˈhaving read the book of myths and loaded the cameraˈˈ in ˈˈDiving into the Wreck.ˈˈ - ttddAdrienne Rich
Name these female poets. This author wrote a poem whose title creature is ˈˈrestless⸴ˈˈ ˈˈunrelenting⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈnot freeˈˈ and whose fury is ˈˈnot on her lap where the horn rests but deep in her moonpit⸴ growing.ˈˈ In addition to ˈˈThe Black Unicorn⸴ˈˈ this poet wrote an essay about abolishing patriarchy that declares ˈˈthe master's tools will never dismantle the master's house.ˈˈ This poet's struggles with her mastectomy are outlined in The Cancer Journals. Name this self-described ˈˈlesbian⸴ mother⸴ warrior⸴ poet⸴ˈˈ a Black author who wrote Sister⸴ Outsider and Zami: A New Spelling of My Name. - ttddAudre Lorde
Answer the following questions about Jack London. In this London novel⸴ the main character was formerly owned by Judge Miller and kills Spitz while part of a sled dog team. He eventually attacks a group of Yeehat natives after they kill his master John Thornton. - ttddThe Call of the Wild
Answer the following questions about Jack London. In this other London novel⸴ Grey Beaver finds Kiche and her cub⸴ the title character who is used by Beauty Smith for dog fighting before being bought by Weedon Scott. - ttddWhite Fang
Answer the following questions about Jack London. In one novel by London⸴ a man with this profession named Pat Glendon Jr. marries Maud Sangster who interviews him and helps reveal corruption within his profession. In London's story ˈˈThe Mexicanˈˈ⸴ Felipe Rivera engages in this profession to support a revolutionary junta in Mexico. Another man with this profession⸴ Tom King⸴ is too poor to afford the title ˈˈPiece of Steakˈˈ before eventually quitting because of his age. Danny Ward is another London character with this profession that is contracted to engage another man in this profession in which he loses despite his fame at it. Identify this profession which was corrupted by fixed fights and includes practitioners like Muhammad Ali. - ttddBoxer [accept word forms like boxing; prompt on ˈˈfighterˈˈ or equivalents]
Answer these questions about American literary movements. This postmodern movement with members including Neal Cassidy and Lawrence Ferlinghetti rejected conflict and the arms race in favor of Eastern Ideals⸴ as seen in the poem ˈˈWichita Vortex Sutra.ˈˈ - ttddBeat generation
Answer these questions about American literary movements. Beat poets met in this city during the Six Gallery Reading where one poem which later faced an obscenity trial was first read. Ferlinghetti's City Lights Bookstore is located in this California city. - ttddSan Francisco
Answer these questions about American literary movements. This author claimed ˈˈEverything/Is Ignorant of its own emptinessˈˈ in the one hundred thirteenth section of his collection Mexico City Blues. This author included sections of his Book of Haikus in a novel in which the protagonist joins Ray Smith and Henry Morley in climbing Matterhorn Peak in California. In that novel⸴ by this man⸴ Ray and Japhy Ryder represent the title characters heavily influenced by Buddhism. In another novel by this author⸴ originally written on a scroll⸴ Carlo Marx is visited by some of his friends before Sal Paradise returns to San Francisco. Name this American author of The Dharma Bums and On the Road. - ttddJack Kerouac
Answer these questions about the works of Edgar Allan Poe. Poe described his process of writing this poem as well as general rules for poetry in his essay ˈˈThe Philosophy of Composition.ˈˈ The speaker of this poem hears ˈˈrapping at my chamber doorˈˈ before the title creature perches itself on a ˈˈpallid bust of Pallas.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈThe Ravenˈˈ
Answer these questions about the works of Edgar Allan Poe. In ˈˈThe Raven⸴ˈˈ the speaker mourns the loss of this ˈˈsainted maidenˈˈ lover. In another poem⸴ the speaker asks for ˈˈAn anthem for the queenliest deadˈˈ referring to this character. - ttddLenore
Answer these questions about the works of Edgar Allan Poe. In Poe's story ˈˈA Predicament⸴ˈˈ Signora Psyche Zenobia is decapitated by one of these objects but continues to talk as her servant Pompey runs away. In another story⸴ a town whose name references one of these objects is obsessed with them and cabbages⸴ before a fiddle player kills a villager operating one of them. In a third story⸴ one of these objects causes a ˈˈbrief disconcert of the whole gay companyˈˈ before everyone continues dancing. In that story⸴ one of these objects made of ebony signals the arrival of the Red Death at midnight. Name these large objects⸴ whose chiming periodically interrupts guests of Prince Prospero. - ttddClock [accept synonyms]
Identify these African American authors. In one of this author's novels⸴ children are named by flipping to random Bible passages⸴ like First Corinthians. Milkman Dead searches for gold with Guitar in that novel⸴ Song of Solomon. - ttddToni Morrison [accept Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
Identify these African American authors. In one of this author's novels⸴ Celie marries Mister despite his initial attraction to Nettie⸴ Celie's sister. They both want to escape their abusive father Alphonso. Identify this author of The Color Purple. - ttddAlice Malsenior Walker
Identify these African American authors. One work by this author suggests that racial tension would be reduced if people abandoned Christianity and its hypocrisies. That work by him describes a dinner party in which he met Elijah Muhammad. This author criticized Richard Wright for portraying Bigger Thomas as a stereotypical African American person in his essay ˈˈNotes of a Native Son.ˈˈ This author described a homosexual affair between David and the title character who is about to be guillotined in the beginning of his novel Giovanni's Room. Identify this author of Go Tell It on the Mountain. - ttddJames Arthur Baldwin
Answer some questions about nineteenth century American poetry. This poem describes nature as one who ˈˈhas a voice of gladness⸴ and a smile/And eloquence of beauty.ˈˈ It advises one to go not to death like ˈˈthe quarry-slave at nightˈˈ but rather to ˈˈapproach thy grave/Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch /About him.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈThanatopsisˈˈ
Answer some questions about nineteenth century American poetry. The author of that poem⸴ William Cullen Bryant⸴ also wrote a poem about one of these creatures in which the speaker asks ˈˈWhither⸴ ˈmidst falling dew ... dost thou pursue Thy solitary way?ˈˈ - ttddWaterfowl [accept ˈˈTo a Waterfowlˈˈ]
Answer some questions about nineteenth century American poetry. In Bryant's poem ˈˈThe Embargo⸴ˈˈ the speaker asks this figure to ˈˈrestore our happy state againˈˈ and ˈˈlift our wondˈring Eagle to the sky!ˈˈ In another poem about this figure⸴ the speaker demands the ˈˈgrace and glory of thy martial bandˈˈ after calling him ˈˈfirst in peace and honors.ˈˈ The speaker of that poem wonders ˈˈShall I to [this figure] their praise recite?ˈˈ before asking him to ˈˈProceed⸴ great chief⸴ with virtue on thy side.ˈˈ That poem ends by granting this figure ˈˈA crown⸴ a mansion⸴ and a throne that shine/With gold unfading.ˈˈ Identify this subject of a Phillis Wheatley poem⸴ an American general during the Revolution. - ttddGeorge Washington
Answer these questions about the winner of the 1930 Nobel Prize in Literature⸴ Sinclair Lewis. This novel by Lewis ends with Ted revealing his secret wedding with Eunice to the title character⸴ who has an affair with Tanis Judique⸴ before devoting himself to help his ailing wife Myra. - ttddBabbitt
Answer these questions about the winner of the 1930 Nobel Prize in Literature⸴ Sinclair Lewis. Babbitt is set in this fictional Midwestern city⸴ which is revealed to be the capital of Winnemac in another of his novels. - ttddZenith
Answer these questions about the winner of the 1930 Nobel Prize in Literature⸴ Sinclair Lewis. This novel's protagonist is employed by a terrible author who promotes campaigns including ˈˈBetter Babies Weekˈˈ and ˈˈStop the Spitter Week.ˈˈ That protagonist rivaled a member of Digamma Pi⸴ Angus Duer. In this novel⸴ the protagonist is hailed as a hero after saving a baby in the town of Wheatsylvania. Researchers at the McGurk institute including Max Gottlieb pressure this novel's protagonist to publish his research about a bacteriophage that could cure the plague⸴ before he travels to St. Hubert to test it⸴ only to have his wife die from it. Identify this Sinclair Lewis novel about the title doctor. - ttddArrowsmith
Name these authors of short stories. This author wrote about a young woman considering abortion in ˈˈHills Like White Elephantsˈˈ and about Harry dying of gangrene in ˈˈThe Snows of Kilimanjaro.ˈˈ - ttddErnest Hemingway
Name these authors of short stories. This author wrote about Beatrice's father making her physically poisonous to men in ˈˈRappacciniˈs Daughterˈˈ and about the reverend Hooper's title ever-present garment in ˈˈThe Minister's Black Veil.ˈˈ - ttddNathaniel Hawthorne
Name these authors of short stories. This author wrote about a woman who writes to Don Crane about his baby being mentally disabled and other vicious letters before her roses are destroyed. In addition to that story about Adela Strangeworth⸴ ˈˈThe Possibility of Evil⸴ˈˈ this author wrote about a little boy receiving the title snack from Mr. Johnson⸴ who⸴ after a day of good deeds⸴ agrees to switch with his wife and be evil the next day. In a more famous story⸴ this author wrote about Mr. Graves setting up a stool and box for a ceremony run by Mr. Summers. In that story⸴ a paper with a black dot is drawn by Tessie Hutchinson⸴ who must be stoned to death. Name this author of ˈˈOne Ordinary Day with Peanutsˈˈ and ˈˈThe Lottery.ˈˈ - ttddShirley Jackson
Name these American female poets. ˈˈThe Anniadˈˈ is a mock epic poem collected in this author's book Annie Allen. Richard Wright pushed for the publication of her collection A Street in Bronzeville⸴ and she wrote the poem ˈˈWe Real Cool.ˈˈ - ttddGwendolyn Brooks
Name these American female poets. This member of the Algonquin Round Table and wife of Alan Campbell quipped ˈˈMen seldom make passes at girls who wear glassesˈˈ in her poem ˈˈNews Item.ˈˈ - ttddDorothy Parker
Name these American female poets. The speaker ˈˈcaught the quaint Italian quip she flung him from the gutterˈˈ in one of her poems where the speaker comments on ˈˈThe women squatting on the stoopsˈˈ and the ˈˈLittle dirty Latin child.ˈˈ In another of her poems⸴ the speakers imagines herself as ˈˈA ghost in marble of a girl you knewˈˈ after wondering ˈˈI think I should have loved you presently.ˈˈ This author of ˈˈMacdougal Streetˈˈ wrote a poem whose speaker repeats the phrase ˈˈAnd all I saw from where I stood/Was three long mountains and a wood.ˈˈ That poem⸴ ˈˈRenascence⸴ˈˈ is by this author⸴ as is one in which begins ˈˈMy candle burns at both ends.ˈˈ Identify this author of the poem ˈˈFirst Fig.ˈˈ - ttddEdna St. Vincent Millay
Identify these novels set during World War II. This Norman Mailer novel set on the island of Anopopei includes ˈˈChorusˈˈ and ˈˈTime Machineˈˈ subdivisions in each of its sections. In the second section⸴ Croft shoots a Japanese POW and Gallagher's wife dies in childbirth. - ttddThe Naked and the Dead
Identify these novels set during World War II. Willie Keith becomes captain of the title ship following a kamikaze attack during the Okinawa campaign in this Herman Wouk novel which won the 1951 Pulitzer Prize. - ttddThe Caine Mutiny
Identify these novels set during World War II. In a flashback in this novel⸴ Katje Borgesius and Gottfried are kept as sex slaves by SS Captain Blicero⸴ while the octopus Grigori is trained to attack Katje. Laszlo Jamf is suggested to have classically conditioned this novel's protagonist⸴ who is surprised to see the S-Gerät component of a weapon marked with five zeroes in a section titled ˈˈUn Permˈ au Casino Hermann Goeringˈˈ. Edward Pointsman and Roger Mexico notice the similarities between the Poisson distribution and a certain reaction of the protagonist in this novel⸴ which seemingly predict a V-2 rocket attack. Identify this novel about Tyrone Slothrop⸴ written by Thomas Pynchon. - ttddGravity's Rainbow
Answer these questions about dystopian literature. In this Sinclair Lewis novel⸴ the New Underground opposes the regime of Buzz Windrip⸴ President of America⸴ who imposes his authority with the Minute Men. - ttddIt Can't Happen Here
Answer these questions about dystopian literature. Avis Everhard writes a manuscript detailing the rule of the Oligarchy in this Jack London novel with years measured in Brotherhood of Man. - ttddThe Iron Heel
Answer these questions about dystopian literature. In a short story by this author⸴ John Lyle and Sister Judith join the ˈˈCabal⸴ˈˈ a revolutionary organization bent on overthrowing the regime of ˈˈChristian Prophetsˈˈ in America. That story⸴ ˈˈIf This Goes On--⸴ˈˈ is collected in his The Past Through Tomorrow⸴ which is part of his ˈˈFuture Historyˈˈ series of dystopian literature. In one of his novels⸴ Nurse Gillian Boardman treats the protagonist who summarizes life as ˈˈThou art Godˈˈ after having religion explained to him and later creates the ˈˈChurch of All Worlds.ˈˈ In that novel by this author⸴ the World Federation of Free Nations retrieves Valentine Michael Smith from Mars. Identify this science fiction author of Stranger in a Strange Land. - ttddRobert Anson Heinlein
Identify these plays set in New York City. In this Edward Albee play⸴ Jerry rambles on about visiting the title location before impaling himself on a park bench with a knife he gave to Peter. - ttddThe Zoo Story
Identify these plays set in New York City. A group of taxi cab workers go on against the wishes of Harry Fatt after finding out that the title character has been shot in this Clifford Odets play. - ttddWaiting for Lefty
Identify these plays set in New York City. Two characters in this play argue over whether oranges are painted orange after one man describes his trip to Africa. In this play⸴ one character is discouraged from becoming a stenographer before being berated for applauding a performance of ˈˈPaper Dolls.ˈˈ This play's protagonist is stabbed at its conclusion after he had earlier called Immigration Services on two men⸴ one of which tries to marry Catherine. Alfieri narrates this play set in the Red Hook district about the Sicilian immigrants Marco and Rodolpho. Name this Arthur Miller play about Eddie Carbone⸴ named for its proximity to the title structure. - ttddA View From the Bridge
Identify some early American poets. This ˈˈpoet of the Revolutionˈˈ addressed the title plant which was bade ˈˈshun the vulgar eyeˈˈ and is told ˈˈwhen you die you are the sameˈˈ in his poem ˈˈThe Wild Honeysuckle.ˈˈ He also wrote ˈˈThe Indian Burial Ground.ˈˈ - ttddPhilip Freneau
Identify some early American poets. The speaker of a poem by this man asks the Lord ˈˈmake me thy Spining Wheele compleateˈˈ and ˈˈmy Soule thy holy Spoole to bee.ˈˈ That poem by him⸴ which ends with the speaker being ˈˈCloathd in Holy robes for gloryˈˈ is entitled ˈˈHuswifery.ˈˈ - ttddEdward Taylor
Identify some early American poets. A poem by this author set by the ˈˈBanks of Lacrim floodˈˈ asks ˈˈCan Speculation satisfy/Notion without Realityˈˈ before one character asks another ˈˈDisturb no more my settled heart.ˈˈ That poem by this author envisions a conversation between ˈˈThe Flesh and the Spirit.ˈˈ The speaker of a poem by this author notes that ˈˈmy blushing was not smallˈˈ at the return of the subject who was made ˈˈin rags.ˈˈ That poem by this author addresses ˈˈThou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brainˈˈ and is called ˈˈThe Author to Her Book.ˈˈ Identify this female Puritan poet of ˈˈThe Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.ˈˈ - ttddAnne Dudley Bradstreet
Identify the following works of literature. The protagonist of this novella⸴ Holly Golightly⸴ tells the narrator Fred that she loves wandering the displays of the title jewelry store. - ttddBreakfast at Tiffany's
Identify the following works of literature. Esther Greenwood receives a magazine internship in New York before developing depression and attempting suicide in this semi-autobiographical novel. - ttddThe Bell Jar
Identify the following works of literature. The protagonist of this novel expects to inherit her Aunt Peniston's fortune⸴ but most of the money goes to her cousin Grace Stepney. By accepting the proposal to take a trip on the yacht Sabrina⸴ the protagonist unknowingly allows an affair involving Ned Silverton to occur. On the same day that she decides not to use Bertha Mason's love letters for blackmail⸴ the protagonist of this novel writes two ten-thousand dollar checks before overdosing on chloral and being found too late by Lawrence Selden. Lily Bart is the protagonist of what novel about New York high society by Edith Wharton? - ttddThe House of Mirth
Answer these questions about communism in Richard Wright's literature. In Native Son⸴ this character⸴ a member of the Communist Party⸴ dates fellow Communist Jan Erlone. Bigger Thomas accidentally smothers her with a pillow. - ttddMary Dalton [accept either underlined part]
Answer these questions about communism in Richard Wright's literature. Black Boy describes how before becoming acquainted with magazines like the Left Front⸴ Wright used to read the American Mercury published by George Jean Nathan and this ˈˈSage of Baltimoreˈˈ who coined the term ˈˈMonkey trial.ˈˈ - ttddHenry Louis Mencken
Answer these questions about communism in Richard Wright's literature. Wright described his disillusionment with communism in the collection The God That Failed⸴ as did this author who describes joining it because he ˈˈlived in a disintegrating society thirsting for faith.ˈˈ This author wrote a semi- autobiographical novel in which the protagonist⸴ a former Communist⸴ travels to the country of Neutralia. In another novel by this author⸴ the protagonist condemns Richard at a museum for his contrarian views about communism⸴ which is a ploy for the Gestapo to capture him. That novel by him opens with the protagonist dreaming of being arrested and sees Rubashov communicate in prison by tapping walls. Identify this author of Arrival and Departure and Darkness at Noon. - ttddArthur Koestler
Answer some questions about poetry set during the Civil War. John Greenleaf Whittier wrote a poem set on a ˈˈcool September mornˈˈ in which this title woman implores Stonewall Jackson ˈˈˈShoot⸴ if you must⸴ this old gray head⸴/But spare your country's flag.'ˈˈ - ttddBarbara Frietchie
Answer some questions about poetry set during the Civil War. The speaker of a poem by this author explains how the title figures ˈˈsough the rumour of mortalityˈˈ after he observes how ˈˈThe headstones yield their names to the elementˈˈ in his poem ˈˈOde to the Confederate Dead.ˈˈ - ttddAllen Tate
Answer some questions about poetry set during the Civil War. In of this author's poems⸴ the speaker observes ˈˈA girdle of orange⸴ Puritan-pumpkin colored girdersˈˈ as they are ˈˈshaking over the excavations⸴ as it faces Colonel Shaw/and his bell-cheeked Negro infantryˈˈ in a poem which ends by noting ˈˈa savage servility/slides by on grease.ˈˈ In another of his poems⸴ a summer millionaire ˈˈseemed to leap from an L. L. Bean/catalogue⸴ˈˈ while the speaker explains how the title creatures ˈˈsearch/in the moonlight for a bite to eat.ˈˈ ˈˈRelinquunt Omnia Servare Rem Publicamˈˈ opens a poem set in a Boston Aquarium by what author of ˈˈSkunk Hourˈˈ and ˈˈFor the Union Deadˈˈ? - ttddRobert Lowell
Identify these authors active in the 1940s. What author included the stories ˈˈThe Daemon Loverˈˈ and ˈˈCharlesˈˈ in a 1949 story collection? This author is also known for The Haunting of Hill House. - ttddShirley Jackson
Identify these authors active in the 1940s. What author wrote about Neil⸴ the title character⸴ discovering an African American ancestor in his bloodline in the 1947 novel Kingsblood Royal? This author is also known for Arrowsmith. - ttddSinclair Lewis
Identify these authors active in the 1940s. An essay appearing in The God that Failed describes this author's disillusionment with the Communist party⸴ which he also discusses in ˈˈThe Horror and the Glory⸴ˈˈ a section of his memoir. That memoir opens with this author accidentally burning down half his boyhood home in Natchez⸴ Mississippi. In a novel by this author⸴ the protagonist places pamphlets from Jan in his boss's home in an attempt to frame Jan for murder. At the end of that novel by this author⸴ the protagonist is sentenced to death for accidentally killing the white Mary Dalton. Identify this author of Black Boy who wrote about Bigger Thomas in Native Son. - ttddRichard Wright
Identify these poems. What T.S. Eliot poem contains such lines as ˈˈThis is the dead land. This is cactus land.ˈˈ and concludes with the line ˈˈThis is the way the world ends⸴ not with a bang but with a whimperˈˈ? - ttddˈˈThe Hollow Menˈˈ
Identify these poems. What Carl Sandburg poem opens ˈˈPile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterlooˈˈ? The title substance of this poem claims to ˈˈcover allˈˈ and states to the addressee ˈˈLet me work.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈGrassˈˈ
Identify these poems. John Crowe Ransom called the title creature of this poem ˈˈa sort of comic or Gothic reliefˈˈ and claims that this poem's author makes the subject ˈˈhomely and easy.ˈˈ The narrator of this poem recalls that she has already ˈˈsigned away what portions of me be assignableˈˈ and waits with others ˈˈfor the last onset - when the king be witnessed - in the room.ˈˈ The title creature of this poem emits a ˈˈBlue - uncertain stumbling buzzˈˈ before the speaker notes that ˈˈthen the windows failed - and then I could not see to see.ˈˈ Identify this Emily Dickinson poem in which the narrator notices an insect while she is on her deathbed. - ttddˈˈI heard a fly buzz when I diedˈˈ
Identify the following short story authors. What author wrote about a flood hitting the title location in ˈˈThe Luck of Roaring Campˈˈ and about a group of characters ostracized from the title community in ˈˈThe Outcasts of Poker Flatˈˈ? - ttddBret Harte
Identify the following short story authors. Stories featuring the Glass family⸴ including ˈˈUncle Wiggily in Connecticut⸴ˈˈ ˈˈDown at the Dinghy⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈA Perfect Day for Bananafishˈˈ are collected in what author's Nine Stories? - ttddJ. D. Salinger
Identify the following short story authors. A character in one story by this author asks ˈˈIs dying hard⸴ Daddy?ˈˈ after witnessing the father of a breech baby kill himself. The narrator of another story by this author learns Italian grammar from a major who is healing from a hand injury in the same hospital. Those stories by this author⸴ ˈˈIndian Campˈˈ and ˈˈIn Another Country⸴ˈˈ are found alongside ˈˈBig Two-Hearted Riverˈˈ and ˈˈThe Killersˈˈ in a posthumously-published collection named for a recurring character created by this author. Identify this author who wrote many stories featuring the fictional character Nick Adams. - ttddErnest Hemingway
Answer the following about an American literary movement. What literary movement that originated in Europe manifested in America via authors like Herman Melville and poets like William Cullen Bryant? This movement focused on nature and the individual spirit⸴ among other things. - ttddRomanticism
Answer the following about an American literary movement. What author's descriptions of ˈˈnoble savagesˈˈ and the American frontier in novels like The Deerslayer⸴ The Pathfinder⸴ and The Prairie made him an important figure in American Romanticism? - ttddJames Fenimore Cooper
Answer the following about an American literary movement. This poet described a region containing ˈˈa route obscure and lonely⸴ haunted by ill angels onlyˈˈ and ˈˈBottomless vales and boundless floods . . . with forms no man can discover.ˈˈ Another poem by this poet describes a ˈˈgallant knight in sunshine and in shadowˈˈ searching for the title city of gold. In addition to those poems⸴ ˈˈDream-landˈˈ and ˈˈEldorado⸴ˈˈ another poem by this author that is often classified as ˈˈDark Romanticismˈˈ describes a character with ˈˈbright eyesˈˈ who has been buried ˈˈin a sepulchre in [a] kingdom by the sea.ˈˈ Identify this 19th century poet of ˈˈAnnabel Lee.ˈˈ - ttddEdgar Allan Poe
Identify the following American poets. What poet described ˈˈa splash quite unnoticedˈˈ in ˈˈLandscape with the Fall of Icarusˈˈ and described how ˈˈtrees with dead brown leaves . . . begin to awakenˈˈ in ˈˈSpring and Allˈˈ? - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
Identify the following American poets. What poet wrote about a man ˈˈricher than a kingˈˈ in ˈˈRichard Coryˈˈ and another man who was ˈˈborn too lateˈˈ in ˈˈMiniver Cheevyˈˈ? - ttddEdwin Arlington Robinson
Identify the following American poets. The narrator of one work by this author states ˈˈSin has many tools⸴ but a lie is the handle which fits them allˈˈ as an addition to witticisms by Oscar Wilde and Ben Franklin. That work in which the narrator has discussions with people at a boarding house is this author's Autocrat of the Breakfast Table. The narrator of a poem by this author hears a ˈˈvoice that singsˈˈ through ˈˈthe deep caves of thoughtˈˈ that states ˈˈBuild thee more stately mansions.ˈˈ Another poem by this author begins ˈˈAy⸴ tear her tattered ensign down!ˈˈ in reference to the title ship. Identify this poet of ˈˈThe Chambered Nautilusˈˈ and ˈˈOld Ironsides.ˈˈ - ttddOliver Wendell Holmes⸴ Sr. (do not accept Jr.)
Give these colorfully-named works of literature. In what Charlotte Perkins Gilman story does the narrator's declining mental health compel her to ˈˈcreepˈˈ around her room like the woman she believes is trapped behind the title substance? - ttddˈˈThe Yellow Wallpaperˈˈ
Give these colorfully-named works of literature. What Wallace Stevens poem opens by claiming ˈˈAmong twenty snowy mountains⸴ the only moving thing was the eye ofˈˈ the title creature? - ttddˈˈThirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbirdˈˈ
Give these colorfully-named works of literature. At the beginning of this novel's section ˈˈSpring⸴ˈˈ one character wonders if Mr. Henry's advances have ˈˈruinedˈˈ her like the prostitute Marie⸴ or Maginot Line. One character in this novel attempts to hit Maureen Peal⸴ who calls the three central characters ˈˈblack and ugly.ˈˈ This novel opens with three versions of the same Dick and Jane story and describes how the marigolds that two sisters in this novel planted never bloomed. Partially narrated by Frieda and Claudia MacTeer⸴ identify this novel in which Pecola Breedlove is tormented for her black skin⸴ a novel by Toni Morrison. - ttddThe Bluest Eye
Identify these American playwrights. What playwright described Dodge killing a baby his wife incestuousluy bore with his son Tilden in the play Buried Child? - ttddSam Shepard
Identify these American playwrights. What playwright who died in August of 2018 wrote about the newlyweds Corie and Paul in Barefoot in the Park and about friends Oscar and Felix moving in together in The Odd Couple? - ttddNeil Simon
Identify these American playwrights. David and Fanny agree to help Kurt flee the police after he kills a Nazi conspirator in this author's play Watch on the Rhine. In another play by this author⸴ the pupil Mary convinces her grandmother that her teachers Karen and Martha are in a relationship⸴ causing students to pull out of their classroom. In addition to The Children's Hour⸴ this author wrote a play in which the protagonist makes no motion to retrieve her husband's medicine when he has a heart attack⸴ leaving her free to scheme for her brothers' money. Identify this author who created Regina Giddens in The Little Foxes. - ttddLillian Hellman
Give the following related to characters with intellectual disabilities in literature. A mentally deficient character named Lennie Small is shot by his companion George Milton at the end of what John Steinbeck novel? - ttddOf Mice and Men
Give the following related to characters with intellectual disabilities in literature. What Daniel Keyes novel and short story of the same name focuses on a namesake lab mouse and Charlie Gordon⸴ both of whom are given a surgery to greatly increase intelligence which they eventually slowly lose? - ttddˈˈFlowers for Algernonˈˈ
Give the following related to characters with intellectual disabilities in literature. This author wrote a novel about a mentally depressed woman who befriends Doreen and has a relationship with Buddy Willard. That novel's protagonist gets a summer internship at a magazine named Ladies' Day⸴ undergoes electroconvulsive therapy⸴ and is named Esther Greenwood. In one of this author's poems⸴ the speaker states ˈˈThere's a stake in your fat black heart and the villagers never liked youˈˈ; that poem by her ends ˈˈyou bastard⸴ I'm through.ˈˈ Name this author who wrote the novel The Bell Jar and the poem ˈˈDaddy.ˈˈ - ttddSylvia Plath
Name the following authors who wrote coming of age novels. The classic American coming of age novel is what author's The Catcher in the Rye? - ttddJerome David Salinger
Name the following authors who wrote coming of age novels. What African-American author of Native Son wrote about his years of development in the autobiographical novel Black Boy? - ttddRichard Nathaniel Wright
Name the following authors who wrote coming of age novels. This author's first novel is a coming of age novel that ends with Monsignor (mohn-SEEN-yor) Darcy dying and Rosalind Connage breaking up with Amory Blaine. Another novel by this author⸴ which fictionalizes his relationship with Zelda Sayre⸴ describes the dissolving marriage of actress Nicole Warren and psychologist Dick Diver. This author of This Side of Paradise and Tender is the Night wrote another novel whose characters include the golf cheat Jordan Baker⸴ as well as the adulterers Myrtle Wilson and Tom Buchanan. Name this author of the Jazz Age who is best known for The Great Gatsby. - ttddFrancis Scott Key Fitzgerald
Name these Pulitzer Prize-winning authors. The only writer to have won both the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry and the Novel is what author of All the King's Men? - ttddRobert Penn Warren
Name these Pulitzer Prize-winning authors. What poet of ˈˈMiniver Cheevyˈˈ won three Pulitzer Prizes for Poetry⸴ one of which was for his Arthurian poem Tristram. - ttddEdwin Arlington Robinson
Name these Pulitzer Prize-winning authors. This Pulitzer Prize winner's only novella is set in a place called the Mecca and describes Maud Martha's experiences in Chicago. This author wrote a poetic sequence that describes Chicago in A Street in Bronzeville before becoming Poet Laureate of Illinois. One of her poems describes ˈˈthis old yellow pairˈˈ for whom ˈˈdinner is a casual affair.ˈˈ In addition to penning ˈˈThe Bean Eaters⸴ˈˈ this author created a poem which describes ˈˈseven at the golden shovelˈˈ that ˈˈlurk late⸴ˈˈ ˈˈsing sin⸴ˈˈ ˈˈjazz juneˈˈ and ˈˈdie soon.ˈˈ Name this African-American author who wrote ˈˈWe Real Cool.ˈˈ - ttddGwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks
Name these authors who wrote about teachers. What author of The Little Foxes wrote about two teachers named Karen Wright and Martha Dobie⸴ who are accused of lesbianism⸴ in her play The Children's Hour? - ttddLillian Florence ˈˈLillyˈˈ Hellman
Name these authors who wrote about teachers. What author of O Pioneers! wrote about a teacher named Godfrey St. Peter moving into a new home in The Professor's House? - ttddWilla Sibert Cather
Name these authors who wrote about teachers. This author wrote about a Professor at Waindell College who is interested in lepidoptery (leh-pih-DOP-tuh-ree) in his novel Pnin (PEE-nin). During his time in America⸴ this author was a professor at Cornell College⸴ where he apparently taught an English class to Thomas Pynchon. One of his books ends with the execution of Cincinnatus (SINN- sih-natt-us) C.⸴ who is jailed for the crime of gnostic (NAW-stik) turpitude. This author of Invitation to a Beheading created the fictional author of Clare Quilty in a novel in which Dolores Haze is the subject of fantasies by Humbert Humbert. Name this Russo-American author who penned Lolita. - ttddVladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov
Name these American authors who wrote about butterflies. What author of ˈˈDr. Heidegger's Experimentˈˈ wrote about Owen Warland's creation of a mechanical butterfly in ˈˈThe Artist of the Beautifulˈˈ? - ttddNathaniel Hawthorne [accept Nathaniel Hathorne]
Name these American authors who wrote about butterflies. The young Jay Follett appreciates the nature of death as he sees a butterfly in what author's novella A Death in the Family? - ttddJames Rufus Agee
Name these American authors who wrote about butterflies. This author wrote about a character who sees a raindrop fall on a butterfly in ˈˈTwo Minute Seduction.ˈˈ This author wrote about the fashion model Jadine and her love interest Son⸴ who begin a relationship⸴ in her novel Tar Baby. She wrote about Pecola Breedlove in a book named for a body part that Pecola desires. Margaret Garner inspired another of this author's novels⸴ which opens ˈˈ124 was spiteful.ˈˈ In that book by this author⸴ Sethe (seth-uh) murders her own daughter so that she does not go back into slavery. Name this African-American female author who wrote The Bluest Eye and Beloved. - ttddToni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
Name these Pulitzer Prize-winning authors. What author won the 1976 Pulitzer Prize for his novel about a fictional version of Delmore Schwartz entitled Humboldt's Gift? - ttddSaul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]
Name these Pulitzer Prize-winning authors. The novella Pale Horse⸴ Pale Rider and the novel Ship of Fools were written by what author who won the 1965 Pulitzer Prize for her collected short stories? - ttddKatherine Anne Porter [or Callie Russell Porter]
Name these Pulitzer Prize-winning authors. This author won the Pulitzer Prize for writing a work that examines ˈˈcorporation landˈˈ and ˈˈtechnology landˈˈ; that work examines the March on the Pentagon. Ramses IX (the ninth) tells tales of time past in this author's novel set in ancient Egypt; that work is Ancient Evenings. One of his last novels⸴ which focuses on Dieter (DEE-tur)⸴ who notes that a demon possessed Adolf Hitler in his youth⸴ is titled The Castle in the Forest. This author of Armies of the Night won another Pulitzer Prize for his nonfiction novel about Gary Gilmore. Name this author who wrote The Executioner's Song. - ttddNorman Kingsley Mailer
Name these authors who wrote works of nonfiction. What author of the novel A Bell for Adano wrote about six atomic bomb survivors in his book-length work Hiroshima? - ttddJohn Richard Hersey
Name these authors who wrote works of nonfiction. What author of the novel Rabbit⸴ Run chronicled Ted Williams' final home run in his essay ˈˈHub Fans Bid Kid Adieuˈˈ? - ttddJohn Hoyer Updike
Name these authors who wrote works of nonfiction. This author wrote the statement ˈˈNobody can add to the absurdity of this bookˈˈ in regards to the hilariously- translated phrase book English As She is Spoke. Another of his nonfiction works is an essay attacking the rules of literary art that The Deerslayer violated. This author of ˈˈFenimore Cooper's Literary Offensesˈˈ wrote about a town that tries to resist temptation in ˈˈThe Man that Corrupted Hadleyburg.ˈˈ In another of his stories⸴ Jim Smiley captures the title animal⸴ names it Dan'l (ˈˈdanielˈˈ) Webster⸴ and teaches it to jump. Name this humorist who wrote ˈˈThe Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County.ˈˈ - ttddMark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Give the following related to 19th century poetry. What 19th century author wrote the poetry collection The Black Riders⸴ which includes a poem that imagines a bestial creature who eats his own heart? - ttddStephen Crane
Give the following related to 19th century poetry. What other 19th century author wrote about a ˈˈtrue daughter of old timeˈˈ in his poem ˈˈSonnet -To Scienceˈˈ? Other poems by this author include ˈˈAl Aaraafˈˈ (al uh-rawf) and ˈˈTamerlaneˈˈ. - ttddEdgar Allan Poe
Give the following related to 19th century poetry. This poem describes a ˈˈlast onsetˈˈ that occurs ˈˈwhen the king be witnessed in the room.ˈˈ Its speaker describes how ˈˈI willed my Keepsakesˈˈ and ˈˈsigned away what portion of me be assignableˈˈ before noting how the title figure ˈˈwas there interposed.ˈˈ That figure is described as ˈˈblueˈˈ and ˈˈuncertainˈˈ⸴ and it occupies a space ˈˈbetween the light and meˈˈ where the speaker realizes ˈˈand then I could not see to see.ˈˈ This poem opens by describing a ˈˈstillness in the roomˈˈ between ˈˈthe heaves of storm.ˈˈ Name this poem by Emily Dickinson titled for the noise a creature makes when the speaker perishes. - ttddˈˈI heard a fly buzz - when I diedˈˈ [accept Poem 465 or Poem 591]
Name the following related to literary movements. What literary movement had Jack Kerouac (kair-EW-ack)⸴ Lawrence Ferlinghetti (ˈˈfairˈˈ-LIN-get-ee)⸴ and Allen Ginsberg as members? - ttddthe Beat Movement [accept the Beatniks]
Name the following related to literary movements. Lawrence Ferlinghetti founded the City Lights Bookstore in what city which was home to the Beat movement? Mark Twain moved to this city in the 1860s. - ttddSan Francisco⸴ California
Name the following related to literary movements. One member of this movement wrote ˈˈWhirl up⸴ sea⸴ whirl your pointed pinesˈˈ in her poem ˈˈOread.ˈˈ In addition to its member H.D.⸴ another member of this movement wrote ˈˈThe apparition of these faces in the crowd; petals on a wet black boughˈˈ in his extremely short poem ˈˈIn a Station of the Metro.ˈˈ This modernist movement is associated with an author who wrote ˈˈSo much depends upon the red wheelbarrow glazed with rainwater beside the white chickens.ˈˈ Name this early 20th century literary movement⸴ whose members included William Carlos Williams. - ttddImagism [accept word forms]
Identify these American playwrights. Leslie and Sarah are two human sized lizards which use animal analogies to better understand the problems that Nancy and Charlie face in this man's play Seascape. He also wrote The Zoo Story and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. - ttddEdward Franklin Albee III
Identify these American playwrights. 21 pilots die from flying faulty planes produced by Joe Keller in this playwright's work All My Sons. He also created Biff and Happy⸴ two sons of Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman. - ttddArthur Miller
Identify these American playwrights. In one play by this author⸴ an unnamed Woman constantly brandishes a spear at Tshembe to tempt him to join the anti-colonial Resistance movement. In another play by this author⸴ the protagonist displays the title political ad for Wally O'Hara⸴ who turns out to be corrupt. In addition to Les Blancs and The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window⸴ this author wrote a play in which Karl Lindner attempts to push Lena and her family out of the all-white Clybourne Park. Identify this author who wrote about Walter Younger and his father's insurance check in A Raisin in the Sun. - ttddLorraine Hansberry
Identify these novels by American women. In what Ayn Rand novel does John Galt ask Dagny Taggart to join a strike of the business class shortly before he makes a 70-page ranting speech about objectivism? - ttddAtlas Shrugged
Identify these novels by American women. In what Willa Cather novel does the title character grow up in Black Hawk⸴ Nebraska alongside the novel's narrator Jim Burden? - ttddMy Antonia
Identify these novels by American women. When the mother of this novel's protagonist asks her who the father of her child is⸴ she responds that it's ˈˈGod's.ˈˈ This novel's protagonist reads about the children Olivia and Adam⸴ Corrine's Olinka burial⸴ and Samuel's missionary work through Nettie's letters. This novel's protagonist brings cigarettes and coffee to a character with whom she eventually falls in love⸴ Shug Avery. To escape the abusive Alfonso⸴ this novel's protagonist marries ˈˈMr.ˈˈ and writes letters about her experiences. Identify this novel about Celie by Alice Walker⸴ named for a pigment. - ttddThe Color Purple
Identify these 20th century poets. What poet wrote such works as ˈˈWoman Workˈˈ and ˈˈStill I Riseˈˈ? Her poem ˈˈOn the Pulse of Morningˈˈ was read at the inauguration of Bill Clinton? - ttddMaya Angelou
Identify these 20th century poets. What poet experimented with grammatical conventions in poems like ˈˈmaggie and milly and molly and mayˈˈ and ˈˈanyone lived in a pretty how townˈˈ? - ttdde. e. cummings
Identify these 20th century poets. Amy's husband threatens ˈˈI'll bring you back by force I will!ˈˈ after she accuses him of not properly grieving their dead son in this poet's ˈˈHome Burial.ˈˈ The narrator of one poem by this author notes that ˈˈHe is all pine and I am all apple orchardˈˈ when wondering about the necessity of the title construction to which he receives the reply ˈˈGood fences make good neighbors.ˈˈ In another of this author's poems⸴ the title object lays ˈˈin leaves no step had trodden blackˈˈ and was ˈˈgrassy and wanted wear.ˈˈ What poet wrote ˈˈMending Wallˈˈ and ˈˈThe Road Not Taken?ˈˈ - ttddRobert Frost
Identify these short stories. In what William Faulkner short story does the title character keep the corpse of her former boyfriend⸴ Homer Barron⸴ in her home? - ttddˈˈA Rose for Emilyˈˈ
Identify these short stories. In what O. Henry short story do the criminals Bill and Sam pay to give back the rambunctious boy they kidnapped⸴ Johnny? - ttddˈˈThe Ransom of Red Chiefˈˈ
Identify these short stories. The protagonist of this story runs into the cover of night after spilling some wine at a wedding in Millford. In this story⸴ the protagonist's wife Elizabeth leaves him when he refuses to lift the title vestment⸴ which is described as ˈˈconsist[ing] of two folds of crape.ˈˈ At the end of this story⸴ the Reverend Hooper is buried in the title shroud that he refused to take off during his life. Identify this story by Nathaniel Hawthorne. - ttddˈˈThe Minister's Black Veilˈˈ
Identify these early American poets. What author wrote ˈˈIf ever two were one⸴ then surely weˈˈ in the poem ˈˈTo My Dear and Loving Husbandˈˈ? This poet published the collection⸴ ˈˈThe Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.ˈˈ - ttddAnne Bradstreet
Identify these early American poets. What poet described a ˈˈmighty man . . . with large sinewy handsˈˈ in ˈˈThe Village Blacksmithˈˈ and wrote about two suitors of Priscilla Mullins in ˈˈThe Courtship of Miles Standishˈˈ? - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
Identify these early American poets. One poem by this author describes a group who laments that ˈˈWe sing⸴ but oh the clay is vile beneath our feetˈˈ and who questions ˈˈWhy should the world be over-wise in counting all our tears and sighs?ˈˈ The narrator of another poem by this author muses about a creature whose ˈˈwing is bruised and his bosom sore⸴ - When he beats his bars and he would be free.ˈˈ A line from that poem by this poet provides the title for Maya Angelou's memoir I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. ˈˈWe Wear the Maskˈˈ and ˈˈSympathyˈˈ were penned by what African American author from Dayton⸴ Ohio? - ttddPaul Laurence Dunbar
Answer the following about Pulitzer Prize-winning novels. William Styron won the 1968 Pulitzer Prize for a novel titled for The Confessions of what insurrectionist? - ttddNat Turner
Answer the following about Pulitzer Prize-winning novels. The 1932 Pulitzer Prize winning novel⸴ The Good Earth⸴ was written by what American author who spent most of her childhood in China? - ttddPearl S. Buck
Answer the following about Pulitzer Prize-winning novels. This author wrote about Alexandra Spofford⸴ Jane Smart⸴ and Sukie Rougemont who live in the title town in one novel. This author wrote a novel in which a Toyota Dealership is inherited by Janice and he also wrote a novel in which that same dealership is passed on to her son⸴ Nelson. Accompanying those two novels were two of this author's other novels⸴ Redux and Remembered⸴ all titled for the nickname of Harry Angstrom. Identify this author of The Witches of Eastwick⸴ a repeat winner of the Pulitzer Prize in 1982 and 1991 for his novels Rabbit is Rich and Rabbit at Rest respectively. - ttddJohn Updike
Identify these World War II era novels. What Norman Mailer novel focuses on a platoon of soldiers stationed on the island of Anopopei and was partially inspired by Mailer's experiences during the Philippines Campaign? - ttddThe Naked and the Dead
Identify these World War II era novels. What Thomas Pynchon novel focuses on intelligence employee Tyrone Slothrop and a rocket with the serial number 00000? - ttddGravity's Rainbow
Identify these World War II era novels. In this novel⸴ Chief Halfoat is kicked off base after Wintergreen strikes oil while digging for water. The rotting body of Kid Sampson reminds this novel's protagonist of Snowden⸴ who died on the Avignon mission. After refusing to let him sign an oath⸴ Captain Black accuses Major Major of being a Communist in this novel. This novel takes place on the island of Pianosa and features the 256th squadron⸴ including Captain John Yossarian. Identify this novel by Joseph Heller⸴ whose title is synonymous with a choice with two unfavorable outcomes. - ttddCatch-22
Identify the cities in which the following works are set. What city during its Puritan era serves as the setting of Nathaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter? This city also serves as the setting of Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward and Esther Forbes' Revolutionary War-set Johnny Tremain. - ttddBoston⸴ Massachusetts
Identify the cities in which the following works are set. What city serves as the setting of multiple books by Sandra Cisneros⸴ including A House of My Own⸴ Caramelo⸴ and The House on Mango Street? This city also serves as the setting of Saul Bellow's novel The Adventures of Augie March. - ttddChicago⸴ Illinois
Identify the cities in which the following works are set. In one play set in this city⸴ Berneice is advised by Doaker to sell the title instrument because it is summoning Sutter's Ghost. In another play set in this city⸴ one character first enters the stage singing about selling plums and wearing a trumpet around his neck. That character⸴ Gabriel⸴ is the brother of the garbage truck driver Troy Maxson⸴ who lives in this city. The Piano Lesson and Fences are set in this city. A Cycle of plays by August Wilson is named for what Pennsylvania city? - ttddPittsburgh⸴ Pennsylvania
Identify the following poets who wrote about mythology. Norse lore inspired this author's poem ˈˈThe Skeleton in Armor.ˈˈ He also wrote the collection Tales of a Wayside Inn and the epic poem The Song of Hiawatha. - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
Identify the following poets who wrote about mythology. In this author's most famous poem⸴ he repeatedly invokes the name of ˈˈMoloch⸴ˈˈ a demon used to describe filth. In that 1955 poem by him⸴ he states ˈˈI saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.ˈˈ - ttddIrwin Allen Ginsberg
Identify the following poets who wrote about mythology. A mythological woman titles one poem by this author which begins ˈˈStasis in darkness. Then the substanceless blue pour of tor and distances.ˈˈ In another poem by this author⸴ the speaker compares her skin to a ˈˈsort of walking miracleˈˈ that is ˈˈbright as a Nazi lampshade.ˈˈ This author of the poems ˈˈArielˈˈ and ˈˈLady Lazarusˈˈ wrote another poem which compares the title figure to a ˈˈvampireˈˈ who drank the speaker's blood for a year. At the end of that poem by this author⸴ the speaker tells the title family member ˈˈyou bastard⸴ Iˈm through.ˈˈ Name this female author of the poem ˈˈDaddyˈˈ and one-time wife of Ted Hughes. - ttddSylvia Plath
Name these 19th century poets. Clarel is a long epic poem by this author who is better known for sea-faring tales such as Billy Budd. - ttddHerman Melville
Name these 19th century poets. ˈˈI heard a fly buzz - when I diedˈˈ is a short lyric poem by this author⸴ whose edited letters were collected by Mabel Loomis Todd. - ttddEmily Elizabeth Dickinson
Name these 19th century poets. One poem by this author is set during ˈˈthe last steps of dayˈˈ when the title animal is guided ˈˈfrom zone to zoneˈˈ by God. That poem by this author asks ˈˈFar⸴ through their rosy depths⸴ dost thou pursue thy solitary way?ˈˈ Another of his poems states ˈˈYet not to thine eternal resting-place shalt thou retire alone⸴ˈˈ since ˈˈfair forms⸴ and hoary seers of ages pastˈˈ shall be part of ˈˈone mighty sepulcher.ˈˈ In his best known poem⸴ this author called death ˈˈthe innumerable caravan⸴ which moves to that mysterious realm.ˈˈ Name this author of the poems ˈˈTo a Waterfowlˈˈ and ˈˈThanatopsis.ˈˈ - ttddWilliam Cullen Bryant
Name the following authors who wrote about bears. This author wrote about Br'er Bear⸴ as well as Br'er Rabbit⸴ in his tales narrated by Uncle Remus. - ttddJoel Chandler Harris
Name the following authors who wrote about bears. A big bear named Old Ben is hunted by Ike in this Southern author's short story ˈˈThe Bear.ˈˈ - ttddWilliam Cuthbert Faulkner
Name the following authors who wrote about bears. This author wrote ˈˈhis coat resembles the deep snowˈˈ in a poem entitled ˈˈThe Polar Bear.ˈˈ He compared a certain plant to a ˈˈbuttercup upon its branching stemˈˈ in a poem that ends ˈˈfor I too am concerned [for] every man who wants to die at peace in his bed.ˈˈ This author of the poetry collection Pictures from Brueghel also wrote the poem ˈˈAsphodel⸴ that Greeny Flower.ˈˈ An object that is ˈˈglazed with rainwater / beside the white chickensˈˈ is the subject of one poem by this author which begins by noting how ˈˈso much depends uponˈˈ the title object. Name this Imagist author who wrote ˈˈThe Red Wheelbarrow.ˈˈ - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
Answer these questions about works of American literature featuring unreliable narrators. This unreliable narrator⸴ who has a younger sister named Phoebe⸴ is kicked out of Pencey Prep and spends a couple of days wandering around New York City before suffering a mental breakdown in a 1951 novel. - ttddHolden Caulfield [accept either]
Answer these questions about works of American literature featuring unreliable narrators. Billy Bibbit commits suicide by slitting his own throat in this 1962 novel in which the unreliable narrator⸴ Chief Bromden⸴ kills Randle McMurphy by smothering him with a pillow. - ttddOne Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
Answer these questions about works of American literature featuring unreliable narrators. One of this author's novels ends with its unreliable narrator dying of a coronary thrombosis after the title character gives birth to a child on Christmas Day in Alaska. One of this author's novels features the assassin Jakob Gradus and a man who believes himself to be the exiled king of Zembla. That novel by this writer features a 999 line poem written by John Shade. In another of his novels⸴ the scholar Humbert Humbert describes his affection for ˈˈnymphets⸴ˈˈ including the title pre-teen girl. Name this Russian-American author of Pale Fire and Lolita. - ttddVladimir Vladimirovich Nabokov (nah-BAW-kuff) [or Vladimir Sirin]
Answer the following about cars in literature. This Sinclair Lewis novel is named after Samuel⸴ a seller of cars who tours Europe with his wife⸴ Fran. - ttddDodsworth
Answer the following about cars in literature. A dude named Dude runs over his grandmother with a newly purchased car in this novel by Erskine Caldwell. - ttddTobacco Road
Answer the following about cars in literature. This author suggested that when he spoke ˈˈill of Swedish engineering⸴ˈˈ he ˈˈdiddled [himself] out of a Nobel Prizeˈˈ in a humorous piece entitled ˈˈHave I Got a Car For You.ˈˈ This author wrote about visiting heaven to meet Adolf Hitler and William Shakespeare in a work entitled God Bless You⸴ Dr. Kevorkian. The protagonist of one novel by this author marries Valencia Merble but later has a child with Montana Wildhack⸴ who is an adult film actress. The Bokonon religion is introduced in another novel by this author⸴ who created many works that feature the fictional sci-fi writer Kilgore Trout. Billy Pilgrim becomes ˈˈunstuck in timeˈˈ in a novel by what writer who authored Cat's Cradle and Slaughterhouse-Five? - ttddKurt Vonnegut Jr.
Name these writers who wrote about John Brown. This writer won a Pulitzer Prize for his epic poem John Brown's Body. He also wrote the poem ˈˈAmerican Names⸴ˈˈ which contains the line ˈˈBury My Heart at Wounded Knee.ˈˈ - ttddStephen Vincent Benet (BIH-nay)
Name these writers who wrote about John Brown. Music from the song ˈˈJohn Brown's Bodyˈˈ inspired this author to write ˈˈThe Battle Hymn of the Republic⸴ˈˈ since she felt the lyrics to ˈˈJohn Brown's Bodyˈˈ were too violent. - ttddJulia Ward Howe
Name these writers who wrote about John Brown. This author imagined a time in which the poet will no longer sing of Rome⸴ but rather weep for the title figure⸴ in his speech ˈˈA Plea for Captain John Brown.ˈˈ In one of his books⸴ this author describes a ˈˈruddy and lustyˈˈ old dame that is likely to outlive all of her children in a chapter entitled ˈˈSolitude.ˈˈ In that book by this author⸴ the chapter ˈˈWhere I Lived⸴ and What I Lived Forˈˈ details what led the author to spend two years⸴ two months⸴ and two days by the title pond in Maine. Name this American Transcendentalist who wrote Walden. - ttddHenry David Thoreau (thuh-ROH)
Give the following works or authors related to World War 1. The World War 1 Battle of Caporetto is depicted in this novel⸴ in which one character dies in Switzerland shortly after giving birth to a stillborn child. - ttddA Farewell to Arms
Give the following works or authors related to World War 1. This author's only novel⸴ The Enormous Room⸴ fictionalizes his experiences in a World War 1 POW camp. - ttddE. E. Cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
Give the following works or authors related to World War 1. During World War 1⸴ this American author helped serialize James Joyce's A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. One of this author's poems is named for a man whose ˈˈtrue Penelope was Flaubert (ˈˈflow-BEARˈˈ)ˈˈ and who ˈˈstrove to resuscitate the dead art of poetry.ˈˈ Another of this author's poems tells Robert Browning to ˈˈhang it all;ˈˈ that work is divided into sections such as ˈˈFifth Decad⸴ˈˈ ˈˈThrones⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈPisan.ˈˈ This author of ˈˈHugh Selwyn Mauberleyˈˈ was once arrested for supporting the fascist government in Italy during World War 2. Name this expatriate author whose masterpiece is The Cantos. - ttddEzra Westin Loomis Pound
Answer the following about works of literature with horror elements to them. Tessie Hutchinson is stoned to death following the title event of this short story⸴ which is considered to be an example of a ˈˈrealisticˈˈ subgenre of horror fiction. - ttddˈˈThe Lotteryˈˈ
Answer the following about works of literature with horror elements to them. This author's story ˈˈThe Call of Cthulhu (kuh-THOOL-hoo)ˈˈ introduced a part octopus⸴ part dragon⸴ monster that periodically terrorizes the world. - ttddH. P. Lovecraft [or Howard Philips Lovecraft]
Answer the following about works of literature with horror elements to them. This author's short story collection Can Such Things Be? contains a horror story in which a chess-playing automaton (AH-tuh-muh-tahn) murders its maker after it loses a game of chess. This author of ˈˈMoxon's Masterˈˈ wrote the collection Tales of Soldiers and Civilians⸴ which contains a story in which a deaf mute child witnesses the aftermath of the title Civil War battle. This author of the short story ˈˈChickamaugaˈˈ is better known for a short story in which Peyton Farquhar (FAR-kwahr) hallucinates much of the narrative while being hanged for attempting to destroy the title structure. Name this author of ˈˈAn Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.ˈˈ - ttddAmbrose Gwinnett Bierce
Name these authors who were thought to be involved with murder or assault. This author was once arrested for murdering David Kammerer⸴ which he wrote about in And The Hippos were Boiled in Their Tanks. He also wrote The Dharma Bums. - ttddJack Kerouac (ˈˈCAREˈˈ-uh-wak) [accept Jean-Louis Lebris de Kerouac]
Name these authors who were thought to be involved with murder or assault. This author stabbed his wife⸴ Adele Morales⸴ with a pen knife in the 1960s and pled guilty to assault. He may be better known for writing about the March on the Pentagon in the nonfiction novel Armies of the Night. - ttddNorman Kingsley Mailer
Name these authors who were thought to be involved with murder or assault. In the introduction to one novel⸴ this man noted that he was ˈˈbrought...in contact with the invader⸴ the Ugly Spiritˈˈ after he murdered his wife⸴ Joan Vollmer⸴ while supposedly drunkenly playing a game of ˈˈWilliam Tell.ˈˈ A secret agent prevents gangster aliens from using their mind control techniques on humans in this author's novel The Ticket that Exploded⸴ which is part of his Nova Trilogy. In his best known novel⸴ the junkie Agent William (*) Lee aimlessly wanders from the U.S. to Tangier and finally to Annexia. Name this author who wrote about the Interzone in his novel Naked Lunch. - ttddWilliam Seward Burroughs II [prompt on ˈˈWilliam Leeˈˈ before (*)]
Name these authors who wrote about the devil. In this author's book The Mysterious Stranger⸴ Satan comes to Earth and wreaks havoc in a small Austrian town called Eseldorf. He is better known for writing a short story about a ˈˈcelebrated jumping frogˈˈ named Dan'l Webster. - ttddMark Twain [accept Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
Name these authors who wrote about the devil. Satan appears as ˈˈOld Scratchˈˈ and guards the treasure of William Kidd in this author's short story ˈˈThe Devil and Tom Walker.ˈˈ In a better known short story by this man⸴ Brom Bones vies for the love of Katrina Van Tassel. - ttddWashington Irving
Name these authors who wrote about the devil. In one of this author's novels⸴ the devil is described as a large albino man who is ultimately responsible for the death of ˈˈThe Manˈˈ in an outhouse. In that novel by this author⸴ Joel Glanton is a scalp·hunter who travels with Louis Toadvine and ˈˈThe Kid.ˈˈ This author's other books include Suttree and All the Pretty Horses⸴ the latter of which is a novel in his ˈˈBorder Trilogy.ˈˈ One of the better known novels by this author is subtitled the ˈˈEvening Redness in the West.ˈˈ In another novel by this man⸴ Llewelyn Moss steals drug money and is hunted by the sadistic hitman Anton Chigurh (shih-gur). Name this modernist author who wrote Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men. - ttddCormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]
Answer the following about works of literature related to New York City. ˈˈBattle Royaleˈˈ is the first section of this 1952 novel⸴ which follows an unnamed black man living in Harlem who joins an organization known as the Brotherhood. - ttddInvisible Man [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈThe Invisible Manˈˈ]
Answer the following about works of literature related to New York City. New York professional Henry Cameron hires the protagonist of this 1943 philosophical novel about the stubborn architect Howard Roark⸴ who in one notable scene rapes his future wife⸴ Dominique Francon. - ttddThe Fountainhead
Answer the following about works of literature related to New York City. New York City was the setting of a novel by this author which ends in Paris with the protagonist's son⸴ Dallas⸴ on his way to meet a Countess as his father returns to his hotel. Another of this writer's novels ends with Lawrence Selden deciding to propose marriage to the protagonist⸴ Lily Bart⸴ who commits suicide immediately before his arrival. In another of her novels⸴ Ellen Olenska leaves behind Newland Archer even though she is in love with him. Name this female author of The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence. - ttddEdith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
Name these Pulitzer-Prize winning plays. In this play by August Wilson⸴ Troy Maxson is a former baseball player who now works as a garbage man. Its title refers to a structure that allegorically fends off the Grim Reaper. - ttddFences
Name these Pulitzer-Prize winning plays. In this other August Wilson play⸴ Bernice plays the title music instrument to fend off spirits that have haunted her house. Boy Willie desires to sell the title object⸴ though Bernice objects since it is part of her tradition. - ttddThe Piano Lesson
Name these Pulitzer-Prize winning plays. In this play⸴ a man starts singing ˈˈLibera me⸴ Domine (lih-ˈˈBEARˈˈ-uh ˈˈmeˈˈ DOH-me-nay)ˈˈ as part of a ˈˈrequiemˈˈ for a child. That character had earlier appeared in this play's third act with snapdragons that he called ˈˈflores para los muertos⸴ˈˈ or ˈˈflowers for the dead.ˈˈ Two intermissions of ten minutes each usually punctuate the three acts of this play⸴ which are titled ˈˈFun and Games⸴ˈˈ ˈˈWalpurgisnacht (vahl-PUR-giss-nahkt)⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈThe Exorcism.ˈˈ In this play⸴ the young couple Nick and Honey are invited over to the house of the frequently bickering couple George and Martha. Name this play by Edward Albee that is jokingly named after a female British author. - ttddWho's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Answer the following about gothic literature. This 1851 Gothic novel focuses on the decline of a family whose members include Phoebe⸴ who falls in love with the daguerreotypist Holgrave⸴ and Clifford⸴ who is framed for murder by his cousin Jaffrey. - ttddThe House of the Seven Gables
Answer the following about gothic literature. Charlotte Perkins Gilman authored this Gothic short story in which a woman is moved into a mansion by her husband and believes that she is hallucinating figures from the title object. - ttddˈˈThe Yellow Wallpaperˈˈ
Answer the following about gothic literature. A Gothic poetry collection by this author describes ˈˈTime and the grindstone and the knife of Godˈˈ in its poem ˈˈNew Year's Day.ˈˈ That poetry collection by this author is named for a Scottish baron who refuses to pay the stonemason Lamkin for building the title structure⸴ leading the stonemason to kill his wife and child. This author of Lord Weary's Castle wrote a poem dedicated to Elizabeth Bishop about the ˈˈNautilus Island's hermit.ˈˈ That poem by this author describes an animal that ˈˈjabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour creamˈˈ and ˈˈwill not scare.ˈˈ ˈˈSkunk Hourˈˈ was authored by what Confessional poet from Boston who also wrote For the Union Dead? - ttddRobert Traill Spence Lowell IV
Name these writers who were born in Maine. A copy of this writer's dirty novel about an erotic phone call⸴ Vox⸴ was possibly given as a gift by Monica Lewinsky to Bill Clinton. His novel Checkpoint discusses a plan to assassinate George W. Bush. - ttddNicholson Baker
Name these writers who were born in Maine. The collection of stories The Country of the Pointed Firs⸴ which details the local color of Maine⸴ was written by this female author⸴ who also wrote the story ˈˈA White Heron.ˈˈ - ttddSarah Orne Jewett
Name these writers who were born in Maine. One poem by this writer from Maine begins ˈˈwe were very tired⸴ we were very merryˈˈ and is named for the Spanish word for ˈˈremembrance.ˈˈ This author of ˈˈRecuerdoˈˈ wrote a poem in which a mother tells her son that ˈˈyou've need of clothes to cover you⸴ and not a rag have I.ˈˈ Another poem by this author asserts ˈˈBut ah⸴ my foes⸴ and oh⸴ my friends - it gives a lovely light.ˈˈ Those poems by this author were titled ˈˈThe Ballad of the Harp-Weaverˈˈ and ˈˈThe First Fig⸴ˈˈ the latter of which appears in her poetry collection A Few Figs from Thistles. The line ˈˈmy candle burns at both endsˈˈ was written by what female author whose middle name derived from the Catholic hospital at which she was born? - ttddEdna St. Vincent Millay
Questions in this category will deal with the moon. This author dramatized Billy and Saxon Roberts⸴ two men eking out a living in Oakland⸴ in his novel The Valley of the Moon. He also wrote about a literary critic who is rescued from a shipwreck in his novel The Sea-Wolf. - ttddJack London [or John Griffith London or John Griffith Chaney]
Questions in this category will deal with the moon. This author allegorically depicted a Nazi invasion of a Norwegian town in The Moon is Down. He wrote about a man who his targeted for owning the title valuable in the novella The Pearl. - ttddJohn Ernst Steinbeck Jr.
Questions in this category will deal with the moon. One novel by this author includes the character Bernardo de la Paz⸴ who warns others that shipments of hydroponic wheat will cause the moon's resources to run out. That novel by this author is narrated by Mannie O'Kelly- Davis⸴ a technician who is in charge of a computer named after Mycroft Holmes. One of this author's characters learns of the Fosterite Church of the New Revelation and is killed by its members; that character is a man from Mars named Valentine Michael Smith. Name this science fiction author who wrote The Moon is a Harsh Mistress and Stranger in a Strange Land. - ttddRobert Anson Heinlein
Questions in this category will deal with the adjective ˈˈlost.ˈˈ This author wrote about Marian Forrester⸴ a woman who has an affair and eventually runs away from her husband⸴ in the novel A Lost Lady. Other books by this author include The Professor's House and One of Ours. - ttddWilla Sibert Cather
Questions in this category will deal with the adjective ˈˈlost.ˈˈ This posthumously published Ernest Hemingway memoir set in Paris featured the use of the term ˈˈLost Generation⸴ˈˈ which was supposedly uttered by a garage owner who was taking care of Gertrude Stein's car. - ttddA Moveable Feast
Questions in this category will deal with the adjective ˈˈlost.ˈˈ The death of this author's father⸴ Herman⸴ was the subject of his memoir entitled Patrimony: A True Story. One novel by this author is divided into the three sections ˈˈParadise Lost⸴ˈˈ ˈˈParadise Remembered⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈThe Fallˈˈ; in that novel⸴ a post office is blown up by the daughter of Seymour ˈˈSwedeˈˈ Levov. Another novel by this man imagines that the anti-Semitic Charles Lindbergh has been elected president. This author of American Pastoral and The Plot Against America wrote a novel in which the title character talks to Dr. Spielvogel about his graphic sexual frustrations. Name this contemporary Jewish-American author who wrote Portnoy's Complaint. - ttddPhilip Milton Roth
Answer the following questions about music in American poetry. This author wrote about a fictional character from A Midsummer Night's Dream ˈˈmaking musicˈˈ in his poem ˈˈPeter Quince at the Clavier.ˈˈ Other poems by this man include ˈˈAnecdote of the Jarˈˈ and ˈˈThe Idea of Order at Key West.ˈˈ - ttddWallace Stevens
Answer the following questions about music in American poetry. A singer who ˈˈslept like a rock or a man that's deadˈˈ is mentioned in this Langston Hughes poem that is set on Lennox Avenue ˈˈthe other night.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈThe Weary Bluesˈˈ
Answer the following questions about music in American poetry. The Harmony of Deeper Music is a collection of posthumously published poems by this writer⸴ who wrote about a hunter of ˈˈquail and snipeˈˈ named Percy Bysshe Shelley in one of his poems. He asked ˈˈWhere are Elmer⸴ Herman⸴ Bert⸴ Tom and Charley?ˈˈ at the beginning of a poem called ˈˈThe Hill.ˈˈ Abraham Lincoln's supposed first true love⸴ Anne Rutledge⸴ states ˈˈWedded to him⸴ not through union⸴ but through separationˈˈ in a poem by this author that is part of a collection of free-verse epitaphs spoken by dead people. Name this American poet who wrote Spoon River Anthology. - ttddEdgar Lee Masters
Answer the following about traveling in literature. In this novel by Jack Kerouac⸴ Dean Moriarty and Sal Paradise maintain a carefree lifestyle as they travel across the U.S. and Mexico. - ttddOn the Road
Answer the following about traveling in literature. This book by Mark Twain documents his days of being a steamboat pilot serving Horace Bixby. It is named for the river on which he would often pilot his ship. - ttddLife on the Mississippi
Answer the following about traveling in literature. This author wrote about how Ken Kesey purchased a bus and named it Further in his book about the travels of the ˈˈMerry Pranksters.ˈˈ This author also wrote about the Mercury astronauts in a book of ˈˈNew Journalism.ˈˈ In addition to The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and The Right Stuff⸴ this man authored a novel named for a female student at DuPont University in Pennsylvania. In another of his novels⸴ the bond trader Sherman McCoy accidentally runs over a black youth⸴ causing him to be put on trial in the midst of a media frenzy. Name this author of I am Charlotte Simmons and The Bonfire of the Vanities. - ttddTom Wolfe [or Thomas Kennerly Wolfe; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈThomas Wolfeˈˈ or ˈˈThomas Clayton Wolfe]
Answer the following questions about work of literature with colors in their title. Scratchy Wilson almost antagonizes Sheriff Jack Potter in this Stephen Crane short story about a newlywed woman arriving by train to the title town. - ttddˈˈThe Bride Comes to Yellow Skyˈˈ
Answer the following questions about work of literature with colors in their title. Collier's Magazine published this other Stephen Crane short story⸴ in which a man named Pat Scully is the owner of an establishment visited by a ˈˈshaky and quick-eyedˈˈ Swede. - ttddˈˈThe Blue Hotelˈˈ
Answer the following questions about work of literature with colors in their title. One of this author's novels is set in a town that its residents call ˈˈPoisonvilleˈˈ and focuses on the murder of Donald Willsson. That novel by this author is narrated by the Continental Op and titled Red Harvest. In another novel by this author⸴ one character utilizes the pseudonym ˈˈMiss Wonderly.ˈˈ In that novel by this author⸴ Joel Cairo hires the protagonist to retrieve an object also being sought by the femme fatale Brigid O'Shaughnessy⸴ who kills detective Miles Archer. Name this author who wrote about the search for a bird statue by detective Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon. - ttddSamuel Dashiell Hammett
Name these 20th century plays. The question ˈˈwouldn't it be funny if that were true?ˈˈ is the final line in this play⸴ in which Big Daddy Pollitt rants about ˈˈmendacityˈˈ and his ˈˈspastic colon.ˈˈ - ttddCat on a Hot Tin Roof
Name these 20th century plays. A Moon for the Misbegotten is a sequel to this play⸴ which spends 24 hours depicting the mental breakdown of the Tyrone family. - ttddLong Day's Journey into Night
Name these 20th century plays. At the opening of this play's third scene⸴ a character learns that his son was accidentally killed by soldiers in the aftermath the First World War. In this play⸴ Jonathan and Mary are two teenagers that are killed when a drunk driver crashes his car into a viaduct. This play's title character is harassed by two popcorn and balloon vendors named Nickles and Mr. Zuss. That title character of this play is eventually reunited with his wife⸴ Sarah⸴ after repeatedly hearing the ˈˈDistant Voice.ˈˈ Name this adaptation of the Job story that was authored by Archibald MacLeish. - ttddJ.B.
Answer the following about science fiction novels. An alternate future in which Jews have been relocated to Alaska since Israel was destroyed during World War 2 is imagined in this contemporary author's novel The Yiddish Policemen's Union. - ttddMichael Chabon (SHAY-bahn)
Answer the following about science fiction novels. In this Larry Niven novel⸴ Louis Wu travels to the title structure and meets its inhabitants⸴ who believe him to be a ˈˈgod-engineer.ˈˈ - ttddRingworld
Answer the following about science fiction novels. One of this author's novels ends with Dr. Carlisle Perera receiving a subconscious message stating that members of the title spacecraft ˈˈdo everything in threes.ˈˈ In that novel by this author⸴ Jimmy Pak and other crew members of the Endeavour encounter a giant cylinder named after an Indian god. Another of his novels ends with the protagonist detonating a warhead after becoming a ˈˈstar child.ˈˈ That book by this author features a giant monolith that appears on the Earth and Moon. Name this sci-fi author of such novels as Rendezvous with Rama and 2001: A Space Odyssey. - ttddArthur Charles Clarke
Answer the following about trees and plants in American poetry. What author wrote ˈˈI think that I shall never see a poem as lovely as a treeˈˈ in his poem ˈˈTreesˈˈ? - ttddAlfred Joyce Kilmer
Answer the following about trees and plants in American poetry. What author of the essay ˈˈNatureˈˈ and essay collection Representative Men wrote about ˈˈThe self-same power that brought me there⸴ brought youˈˈ in his plant poem ˈˈThe Rhodoraˈˈ (ROH-dor-uh)? - ttddRalph Waldo Emerson
Answer the following about trees and plants in American poetry. One poem by this author asserts ˈˈEarth's the right place for love: I don't know where it's likely to go better.ˈˈ That plant-centric poem by this author describes how ice-storms cause the title plants to stay down. That poem⸴ which was read at JFK's inauguration⸴ asserts ˈˈOne could do worse than be a swingerˈˈ of the title plants. Another plant-centric poem by this author features a speaker who wishes he could state ˈˈBut here there are no cowsˈˈ to a person who repeatedly exclaims ˈˈGood fences make good neighbors.ˈˈ Name this author who wrote ˈˈBirchesˈˈ and ˈˈMending Wall.ˈˈ - ttddRobert Lee Frost
Name these American authors who created imaginary cities. What author's collection Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque included the short story ˈˈShadowˈˈ⸴ which featured an imaginary city named Ptolemais (TAHL-uh-may-iss) that is haunted by a frightening beast? - ttddEdgar Allan Poe
Name these American authors who created imaginary cities. What American author⸴ who created the characters Tarzan and John Carter⸴ wrote a series of novels about fictional cities in Pellucidar (PUH-loo-sih-dar)⸴ the name for the occupied interior of the earth? - ttddEdgar Rice Burroughs
Name these American authors who created imaginary cities. This author created the fictional country of Noland⸴ whose capital is Nole⸴ in a novel in which Bud⸴ Fluff⸴ and Queen Zixi (ZIKS-ee) of Ix try to use a magic cloak to grant its user wishes. This author wrote a ˈˈsea fantasyˈˈ set in the land of Queen Aquarine⸴ which is being terrorized by a giant octopus representative of the Standard Oil Company. This author of The Sea Fairies wrote a novel that satirizes monetary policy: the silver footwear given to its protagonist represents the free silver movement⸴ while the yellow brick road represents the gold standard. Name this American author who wrote about a journey undertaken by Dorothy Gale in The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. - ttddLyman Frank Baum
Answer the following about animals in literature. What Jack London novel is named for a three-quarters wolf⸴ one quarter dog character that is tamed by Judge Scott? - ttddWhite Fang
Answer the following about animals in literature. Jody Tiffin is given the title animal of this John Steinbeck novella⸴ which is set on a California ranch. - ttddThe Red Pony
Answer the following about animals in literature. This author wrote an essay about sensory neurons that are triggered in a lobster as it is being cooked alive in ˈˈConsider the Lobster.ˈˈ Lenore Beadsman⸴ a telephone switchboard operator⸴ is the subject of this author's first novel⸴ The Broom of the System. In another of his novels⸴ the North American countries have joined to become an entity known as O.N.A.N (OH-nahn). That novel⸴ which is partly set at the Enfield Tennis Academy⸴ features such characters as Hal and Avril Incandenza. Name this now-deceased contemporary American novelist of Infinite Jest. - ttddDavid Foster Wallace
Name these authors who created fictional countries. What author of ˈˈThe Yellow Wallpaperˈˈ imagined a utopia in which women are the only members of society in a work called Herland? - ttddCharlotte Perkins Gilman
Name these authors who created fictional countries. What author of The Rise of Silas Lapham (LAY-fum) wrote about Mr. Twelvemough (TWELF-moth)⸴ who learns about an ideal society from the title figure⸴ in A Traveller from Altruria? - ttddWilliam Dean Howells
Name these authors who created fictional countries. This author imagined that circus clowns are manufactured and balloons are grown as crops in a fictional country named Balloon Picker's Country⸴ which appears in his short story collection Rootabaga (roo-tuh-BAY-guh) Stories. In one poem⸴ the title entity beckons the reader to ˈˈpile them high at Gettysburg⸴ And pile them high at Ypres (EEP-ruh) and Verdun (vair-DUN).ˈˈ In another poem⸴ he noted how the title weather phenomenon ˈˈcomes on little cat feet.ˈˈ This poet of ˈˈGrassˈˈ and ˈˈFogˈˈ wrote about the ˈˈtool makerˈˈ⸴ ˈˈstacker of wheatˈˈ⸴ and ˈˈhog butcher for the worldˈˈ in his poem about the ˈˈCity of Big Shoulders.ˈˈ Name this author of the poem ˈˈChicago.ˈˈ - ttddCarl August Sandburg
Answer the following about novels named after musical instruments. A man who is liberated after playing the title flute is the subject of Aaron's Rod⸴ a novel by what English novelist who relocated to America? - ttddDavid Herbert Richards Lawrence
Answer the following about novels named after musical instruments. Davita's Harp and My Name is Asher Lev are two novels by what Jewish author and rabbi? - ttddHerman Harold Chaim Potok (POH-tock)
Answer the following about novels named after musical instruments. One novel by this author that is named for a musical instrument follows Colin Fenwick⸴ who is raised by his Aunts Dolly and Verena. In addition to penning The Grass Harp⸴ this author wrote a group of travel essays called Local Color and a novel narrated by Fred⸴ who learns about the life style of Holly Golightly. Another work by this author describes ex-convicts Dick Hickock and Perry Smith⸴ who murder the entire Clutter family. Name this author who wrote Breakfast at Tiffany's and the non-fiction novel In Cold Blood. - ttddTruman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]
Name these science fiction novels. What science fiction novel by Philip Dick⸴ which inspired the movie Blade Runner⸴ concerns Rick Deckard⸴ who must ˈˈretireˈˈ four replicants? - ttddDo Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Name these science fiction novels. What other novel by Philip Dick imagines a future in which Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan won World War 2? - ttddThe Man in the High Castle
Name these science fiction novels. At the end of the prologue to this novel⸴ its author states what the first words of the first chapter and the last words of the last chapter will be. In this book⸴ Edgar Denby is killed for stealing a teapot. Later⸴ the protagonist's wife⸴ Valencia Merble⸴ dies of carbon monoxide poisoning. The protagonist of this novel is placed in an animal zoo with the porn star Montana Wildhack where he is watched by plunger shaped aliens named Tralfamadorians (trall-FAHM-uh-door- ee-unz). Billy Pilgrim witnesses the firebombing of Dresden in what novel written by Kurt Vonnegut? - ttddSlaughterhouse-Five⸴ or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death⸴ by Kurt Vonnegut⸴ Jr.⸴ a Fourth Generation German-American Now Living in Easy Circumstances on Cape Cod (and Smoking Too Much)⸴ Who as an American Infantry Scout Hors De Combat⸴ as a Prisoner of War⸴ Witnessed the Firebombing of Dresden⸴ Germany⸴ the Florence of the Elbe⸴ a Long Time Ago⸴ and Survived to Tell the Tale. This is a Novel Somewhat in the Telegraphic Schizophrenic Manner of Tales of the Planet Tralfamadore⸴ Where The Flying Saucers Come From
Name the following poets who were the subject of dedications in other works. T.S. Eliot dedicated The Wasteland to ˈˈthe greater craftsmanˈˈ⸴ which refers to what other American poet who authored ˈˈHugh Selwyn Mauberlyˈˈ? - ttddEzra Weston Loomis Pound
Name the following poets who were the subject of dedications in other works. American author Archibald MacLeish wrote a poem featuring a speaker lying on the ground that was addressed to what British poet⸴ who described ˈˈtime's winged chariot hurrying nearˈˈ in his best known work? - ttddAndrew Marvell
Name the following poets who were the subject of dedications in other works. This author is the subject of a 57-part poetic sequence that begins ˈˈThe governor your husband lived so long moved you not.ˈˈ This subject of an ˈˈhomageˈˈ by John Berryman wrote a poem addressed to ˈˈthou ill-form'd offspring of my feeble brainˈˈ in the section ˈˈThe Author to Her Book.ˈˈ After her domicile burned down on July 10th⸴ she wrote some verses explaining how God had willed it. She wrote ˈˈI prize thy love more than whole Mines of goldˈˈ in ˈˈTo My Dear and Loving Husband.ˈˈ Name this colonial American poet who wrote The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America. - ttddAnne Bradstreet [or Anne Dudley]
Give the following related to countries or ethnicities in literature. The author of Sons and A House Divided was an American missionary who incorporated what country's citizens into many of her novels? - ttddPeople's Republic of China [or PRC or Zhongguo or Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈRepublic of Chinaˈˈ]
Give the following related to countries or ethnicities in literature. The author of Interpreter of Maladies and Unaccustomed Earth is an American author of what country's ancestry? - ttddRepublic of India [or Bharatiya Ganarajya]
Give the following related to countries or ethnicities in literature. One author of this ethnicity wrote the poetry collections whipped cream and sushi and Love at Gunpoint. Another author of this ethnicity wrote about how Abel returned from World War 2 and lost a game of horsemanship to Juan Reyes⸴ an albino⸴ in House Made of Dawn. Love Medicine by Louise Erdrich (AIR-dritch) is from this ethnic group's culture⸴ as is a book about Tayo (TIGH-oh)⸴ who begins suffering from PTSD after his cousin Rocky dies in World War 2. Name this ethnic group which includes the author of Ceremony⸴ Leslie Marmon Silko⸴ who is a member of the Laguna Pueblo. - ttddNative American [or American-Indian; accept Shoshone or Shoshoni or Chippewa or Ojibwe or Kiowa or Laguna Pueblo]
Give the following related to farmers in literature. The immigrant farmer John Hector St. John de Crevecoeur (cray-VUH-coor) wrote what series of twelve epistles in 1782 that makes observations on the New World⸴ such as its institution of slavery? - ttddLetters from an American Farmer; Describing Certain Provincial Situations⸴ Manners⸴ and Customs not Generally Known; and Conveying Some Idea of the Late and Present Interior Circumstances of the British Colonies in North America
Give the following related to farmers in literature. A farmer named Ty Ty Walden⸴ who relentlessly searches for gold on the title piece of land⸴ is the subject of what Erskine (err-SKEEN) Caldwell novel? - ttddGod's Little Acre
Give the following related to farmers in literature. This author once stated ˈˈI'm just a farmer who likes to tell stories.ˈˈ A speech that this author gave famously stated ˈˈI decline to accept the end of man.ˈˈ In Spanish-speaking countries⸴ this author's most famous novel may be If I Forget Thee⸴ Jerusalem⸴ since Jorge Luis Borges (HOR-hay LEW-eez BOR-hayz) translated it. One character created by this author is killed when Wash Jones beheads him with a scythe. In one of his novels⸴ the farmer Lafe (layf) impregnates a woman and gives her ten dollars for an abortion. In that same novel by this man⸴ the character of Vardaman (VAR-duh- man) repeatedly states ˈˈMy mother is a fishˈˈ and Darl is arrested for burning down a barn. Name this American author who wrote about Thomas Sutpen and the Bundren family⸴ respectively⸴ in Absalom⸴ Absalom and As I Lay Dying. - ttddWilliam Cuthbert Faulkner
Answer the following about cities in American literature. What author wrote the Albany Trilogy⸴ which contains the novels Ironweed and Billy Phelan's Greatest Game? - ttddWilliam Joseph Kennedy
Answer the following about cities in American literature. The Mysteries of Pittsburgh is a novel by what Jewish-American author⸴ who also wrote The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay? - ttddMichael Chabon
Answer the following about cities in American literature. Though not Chicago⸴ one novel set mostly in this city focuses on a stock broker who befriends Kate Cutrer and escapes from reality by watching films. This city⸴ which is the setting of The Moviegoer by Walker Percy⸴ is also the setting of George Washington Cable's The Grandissimes (grahn-DEES-uh-mays). In one novel set in this city⸴ Dr. Mandelet (man-DUH-lay) addresses the psychological problems of a woman who befriends Mademoiselle Reisz (rayz) and has an affair with Robert Lebrun. Name this city where Edna Pontellier (pahn-TELL-ee-yay) drowns herself in The Awakening by Kate Chopin⸴ who also wrote about the bayou. - ttddNew Orleans⸴ Louisiana
Name the following authors who featured detectives in their work. What detective writer wrote about Frank Chambers and Cora⸴ who plot to murder Cora's husband Nick⸴ in The Postman Always Rings Twice? - ttddJames Mallahan Cain
Name the following authors who featured detectives in their work. What author of such novels as Fer-de-Lance and Over My Dead Body created a fat detective named Nero Wolf? - ttddRex Todhunter Stout
Name the following authors who featured detectives in their work. This author wrote a ˈˈdetective storyˈˈ in which a man tries to figure out the relationships of people at a party; that work is The Sacred Fount. One novel by this author depicts the relationships of Maggie Verver and Prince Amerigo and is named for a container whose cracking symbolizes a fracture in their relationships. Another novel by this author follows Lambert Strether⸴ who goes to Europe to meet Chad Newsome. The Golden Bowl and The Ambassadors were written by what American-born author who was the brother of psychologist William? - ttddHenry James
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Hester Prynne is forced to wear a red ''A'' on her chest in what American novel? - ttddThe Scarlet Letter
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. The Scarlet Letter is by what American author? - ttddNathaniel Hawthorne
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Hester is forced to wear the scarlet A after committing what act, also committed in the novel by Reverend Dimmesdale? - ttddAdultery
American Literature: Identify the following American settings based on works set in them. Team A:The Catcher in the Rye and The Age of Innocence are mainly set in what city? - ttddNew York City
American Literature: Identify the following American settings based on works set in them. Team B:The Jungle and Sister Carrie are mainly set in what city? - ttddChicago
American Literature: Identify the following American settings based on works set in them. This state is the setting of Margaret Mitchell's Gone With the Wind, where the plantation Tara is located. - ttddGeorgia
American Literature: Identify these things about the novel The Catcher in the Rye. What author wrote The Catcher in the Rye along with Franny and Zooey? - ttddJ. D. Salinger
American Literature: Identify these things about the novel The Catcher in the Rye. Who is the protagonist of the novel, a boy who wanders around New York City after being kicked out of Pencey Prep? - ttddHolden Caulfield (accept either)
American Literature: Identify these things about the novel The Catcher in the Rye. During the novel, Holden asks a cab driver where the ducks in what location go during the winter? - ttddCentral Park
American Literature: Janie Crawford finally finds love with a man named Tea Cake after two failed marriages in what American novel? - ttddTheir Eyes Were Watching God
American Literature: Their Eyes Were Watching God is a novel by what American author? - ttddZora Neale Hurston
American Literature: Hurston, along with Countee Cullen and Langston Hughes, were members of what literary movement that was named for a New York City neighborhood? - ttddHarlem Renaissance
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American novel. The central character yearns for a wound during the Civil War in what novel by Stephen Crane? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American novel. What main character of The Red Badge of Courage is an 18-year old soldier in the 304th New York Regiment? - ttddHenry Fleming [accept either name]
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American novel. Henry runs from a group of soldiers after the death of this man, his friend. Identify this soldier who dies in the novel after being shot in the side and suffering from delirium. - ttddJim Conklin (accept either name)
American Literature: Identify these novels by an American author. What novel sees Carol Kennicott move to Gopher Prairie with her husband Will? The novel mostly centers on Carol's attempts to bring culture to the title location. - ttddMain Street
American Literature: Identify these novels by an American author. The title character of this novel, which takes place in Zenith, is married to Myra but has an affair with Tanis Judique. What novel sees Paul Riesling as a close friend of the main character, a successful real estate agent? - ttddBabbitt
American Literature: Identify these novels by an American author. What Sinclair Lewis novel also featuring Max Gottlieb is about a bacteriologist who works to combat the plague on a fictional Caribbean island? - ttddArrowsmith
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. The second section of this work states, ''Hurry up please it's time,'' and it ends repeating the words ''Shantih, Shantih, Shantih.'' Identify this poem that claims that ''April is the cruelest month.'' - ttdd''The Wasteland''
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. ''Women come and go talking of Michelangelo,'' in what other poem which describes life measured out in coffee spoons. - ttdd''The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock''
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. One character in this collection derives his name from the fifth book of the Old Testament. Identify this TS Eliot poetry collection that features Old Deuteronomy and served as the basis from the musical Cats. - ttddOld Possum's Book of Practical Cats (prompt on ''Cats'' before TS Eliot)
American Literature: Identify these American plays. ''Homecoming'', ''The Hunted'' and ''The Haunted'' are the three sections in what Eugene O'Neill play that is based upon the Aeschylus play The Oresteia? - ttddMourning Becomes Electra
American Literature: Identify these American plays. Harry Hope's Tavern is the setting for what other Eugene O'Neill play featuring Theodore ''Hickey'' Hickman? - ttddThe Iceman Cometh
American Literature: Identify these American plays. One character in this play invests $70,000 to complete the construction of a cotton mill. The power struggle between Oscar and Ben Hubbard and their sister Regina Giddens is the primary story in what play by Lillian Hellman? - ttddThe Little Foxes
American Literature: Identify these poems by Wallace Stevens. One section of this poem remarks, ''I do not know which to prefer, the beauty of inflections / or the beauty of innuendoes.'' Identify this poem that remarks that the title bird ''marked the edge of one of many circles.'' - ttdd13 Ways of Looking at a Blackbird
American Literature: Identify these poems by Wallace Stevens. What Stevens poem begins ''Called the roller of big cigars'' and goes on to say ''let the boys / Bring flowers in last month's newspapers. Let be, be finale of seem?'' - ttddThe Emperor of Ice-Cream
American Literature: Identify these poems by Wallace Stevens. What Wallace Stevens poem begins ''Just as my fingers on these keys make music'' and whose title refers to a man sitting down at an instrument? - ttddPeter Quince at the Clavier
American Literature: Identify these works of Edgar Allen Poe. The title figure sits perched upon a pallid bust of Pallas just above the chamber door in what Poe short story? - ttdd''The Raven''
American Literature: Identify these works of Edgar Allen Poe. The unnamed narrator kills an old man with a vulture eye in what Poe short story? - ttdd''The Tell-Tale Heart''
American Literature: Identify these works of Edgar Allen Poe. Prince Prospero holds a ball for people who are waiting out the plague, but ends up falling victim to it in what Poe short story? - ttdd''The Masque of the Red Death''
American Literature: Identify these books by an American author. What novel that was made into a movie starring Tommy Lee Jones and Josh Brolin follows Sheriff Ed Tom Bell as he tries and fails to find the murderer Anton Chigurh near the Mexican-American border? - ttddNo Country for Old Men
American Literature: Identify these books by an American author. What man is the author of No Country for Old Men? He also wrote Blood Meridian and All the Pretty Horses? - ttddCormac McCarthy
American Literature: Identify these books by an American author. In this Cormac McCarthy novel, a portable grill found by the protagonists has to be disregarded after the boy forgets to turn off the gas. That grill, along with the protagonists' other belongings, is stored in an old shopping cart. Identify this novel about a man and his son traveling to the coast in post apocalyptic America? - ttddThe Road
American Literature: Most of this author's works were published in Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. What female poet wrote ''To His Excellency, George Washington''. - ttddPhyllis Wheatley
American Literature: This author wrote The Author to her Book and To My Dear and Loving Husband. Identify this female Puritan poet whose works were published in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up In America. - ttddAnne Bradstreet
American Literature: In addition to writing about flowers that ''eat my oxygen'' in ''Tulips'', this poet repeated ''I think I made you up inside my head'' in Mad Girl's Love Song. What author wrote ''you do not do / anymore, black shoe'' in Daddy, and created Esther Greenwood in The Bell Jar? - ttddSylvia Plath
American Literature: Identify the following American plays. The Younger family tries to move into an all white Chicago neighborhood in what play by Lorraine Hansberry? - ttddA Raisin in the Sun
American Literature: Identify the following American plays. Patrons of the End of the Line cafe wait for Theodore ''Hickey'' Hickman to arrive in what Eugene O'Neill play? - ttddThe Iceman Cometh
American Literature: Identify the following American plays. Alberta dies with the birth of Raynell and the protagonist builds the title structure for his wife Rose. The protagonist prevents his son Corey from taking a football scholarship because of his own inability to play baseball in what play by August Wilson? - ttddFences
American Literature: Answer these questions about Young Adult books or series that have spawned movies. Hazel Grace Lancaster and Augustus Waters are lovers star-crossed by cancer and their own shortcomings in what popular book by John Green? - ttddThe Fault in Our Stars
American Literature: Answer these questions about Young Adult books or series that have spawned movies. This book's main character, Trish, has to fight to stay at the top of her class and remain undiscovered as the title anomaly in what book by Veronica Roth? - ttddDivergent
American Literature: Answer these questions about Young Adult books or series that have spawned movies. What book features amnesiac main character Thomas, as well as Newt, Minho, and Teresa? The title labyrinth in this novel surrounds the Glade, which the characters call home. - ttddThe Maze Runner
American Literature: Identify these novels that feature animals prominently. A dog named Buck is kidnapped from his California home and forced to be a Yukon sled dog in what novel by Jack London? - ttddThe Call of the Wild
American Literature: Identify these novels that feature animals prominently. Captain Ahab is obsessed with killing the title whale in what most famous novel by Herman Melville? - ttddMoby Dick
American Literature: Identify these novels that feature animals prominently. What children's book by E.B. White sees the title tiny mouse born to a human family that also includes George and the cat Snowball? - ttddStuart Little
American Literature: Give the names of some colorful titles. Henry Fleming receives the title wound during the Civil War in what Stephen Crane novel? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Give the names of some colorful titles. Celie writes letters to God about her father Alphonse and her infatuation with Shug Avery in what epistolary novel by Alice Walker? - ttddThe Color Purple
American Literature: Give the names of some colorful titles. Alex is cured of his streak of ''ultra-violence'' via the Ludovico Technique in what Anthony Burgess novel? - ttddA Clockwork Orange
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. What American author wrote the poems ''Sunday Morning,'' ''The Snow Man,'' and ''Anecdote of the Jar''? - ttddWallace Stevens
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. What Wallace Stevens poem has thirteen short stanzas and is known for the line, ''And it was going to snow / the [title creature] sat in the cedar limbs?'' - ttdd''Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird''
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. What poem from the collection Harmonium includes the lines, ''Let the lamp affix its beam,'' and ''Call the roller of big cigars'' before stating that the only emperor is the title character? - ttdd''The Emperor of Ice Cream''
American Literature: Identify these poems from famous lines: Team A:''By the shore of Gitche Gumee, By the Shining Big-Sea-Water'' - ttdd''The Song of Hiawatha''
American Literature: Identify these poems from famous lines: Team B:''But I have promises to keep and miles to go before I sleep'' - ttdd''Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening''
American Literature: Identify these poems from famous lines: ''I CELEBRATE myself, and sing myself, And what I assume you shall assume, For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you'' - ttdd''Song of Myself''
American Literature: Identify these works by Ernest Hemingway. What Hemingway novel focuses on Robert Jordan, an American in the International Brigades during the Spanish Civil War? - ttddFor Whom the Bell Tolls
American Literature: Identify these works by Ernest Hemingway. Frederic Henry, an American ambulance driver in WWI, falls in love with Catherine Barkley in what Hemingway novel? - ttddA Farewell to Arms
American Literature: Identify these works by Ernest Hemingway. Jake Barnes and Lady Brett Ashley are characters in what novel that features the running of the bulls in Pamplona. - ttddThe Sun Also Rises
American Literature: Answer these questions about early American literature. What American transcendentalist author wrote the essay "Civil Disobedience" but is best known for a novel about living in isolation alongside Walden pond? - ttddHenry David Thoreau
American Literature: Answer these questions about early American literature. Walden pond was owned by what other transcendentalist author, a friend of Thoreau who wrote Nature and Self-Reliance? - ttddRalph Waldo Emerson
American Literature: Answer these questions about early American literature. This author wrote "To The King's Most Excellent Majesty" about George III following the repeal of the Stamp Act. Identify this first African-American female to be published in America who wrote Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. - ttddPhyllis Wheatley
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. Henry Fleming strives to receive the title wound in what Civil War novel based upon a fictional account of the Battle of Chancellorsville? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. The Red Badge of Courage is a novel by what American author of Maggie: A Girl of the Streets? - ttddStephen Crane
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. Crane's own experiences surviving a shipwreck inspired what short story about an oiler named Billie? - ttddThe Open Boat
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. What author wrote that "April is the cruelest month" in his poem "The Waste Land"? - ttddT.S. Eliot
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. What other poem by Eliot ends with the line "This is the way the world ends, not with a bang, but with a whimper"? - ttdd"The Hollow Men"
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. This Eliot play centered on an event that occurred in 1170 at the Canterbury Cathedral. Identify this play about the assassination of Archbishop Thomas a Becket. - ttddMurder in the Cathedral
American Literature: Identify these modernist American authors. What American author of Anna Christie also wrote Ah, Wilderness and The Emperor Jones? - ttddEugene O'Neill
American Literature: Identify these modernist American authors. What American author wrote an epic poem based upon his hometown in New Jersey entitled Paterson? - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
American Literature: Identify these modernist American authors. The author of "The Anecdote of the Jar" wrote about the "roller of big cigars" in his poem "The Emperor of Ice Cream". Identify this American author who wrote "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird". - ttddWallace Stevens
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Hazel Lancaster falls in love with Augustus Waters in what novel by John Green? - ttddThe Fault in Our Stars
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Miles Halter leaves Florida for Culver Creek Preparatory School where he meets and falls in love with the title character in what novel by John Green? - ttddLooking for Alaska
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. This program includes segments entitled "Me from the Past" and "The Open Letter". Created by John Green and his brother Hank, identify this series on YouTube covering topics from history to literature to anatomy. - ttddCrash Course
American Literature: Identify these books that have appeared on the New York Times bestseller list in the past decade. Spending three weeks atop the list in the summer of 2015 was what novel by Harper Lee that was the follow-up to To Kill a Mockingbird? - ttddGo Set a Watchman
American Literature: Identify these books that have appeared on the New York Times bestseller list in the past decade. The marriage of Nick and Amy Dunne appears in what Gillian Flynn novel that appeared on the list for 5 weeks between 2014 and 2015 and spawned a movie starring Ben Affleck? - ttddGone Girl
American Literature: Identify these books that have appeared on the New York Times bestseller list in the past decade. This novel is told from the perspective of three women named Aibileen, Minny and Skeeter, who work as maids in Jackson, Mississippi. Identify this novel by Kathryn Stockett that was made into a 2011 film starring Viola Davis. - ttddThe Help
American Literature: Answer these questions about sports in literature. Flynn and Blake reach base before the title character strikes out swinging in what poem set in the town of Mudville by Ernest Lawrence Thayer? - ttdd"Casey at the Bat"
American Literature: Answer these questions about sports in literature. Roy Hobbs uses a bat called "Wonderboy" while playing for the fictional New York Knights in what novel by Bernard Malamud that was made into a film starring Robert Redford? - ttddThe Natural
American Literature: Answer these questions about sports in literature. Early novels by this American author include The Witches of Eastwick and A&P. This author's best known series of novels are about a car salesman who used to be a high school basketball star, Harry Angstrom. Identify this American author who wrote Rabbit is Rich and Rabbit at Rest. - ttddJohn Updike
American Literature: The title character stabs Ras the Exhorter in what novel about a nameless black man who feels neglected by white society? - ttddInvisible Man
American Literature: What American author of Juneteenth wrote Invisible Man? - ttddRalph Ellison
American Literature: This author wrote Notes of a Native Son and collected his essays in a collection entitled The Fire Next Time. Identify this African-American author who wrote about John Grimes in Go Tell it on the Mountain. - ttddJames Baldwin
American Literature: Jim Burden befriends the title Bohemian woman in Black Hawk, Nebraska in what American novel? - ttddMy Antonia
American Literature: My Antonia is a novel by what American author of Alexander's Bridge and Death Comes for the Archbishop? - ttddWilla Cather
American Literature: This novel is divided into six sections, the first of which is entitled "Friends of Childhood". In that section, the title character of this novel discusses her childhood friends Dr. Archie and Ray Kennedy from her time living in the town of Moonstone, Colorado. Thea Kronborg is the title character in what final book of Cather's Prairie Trilogy? - ttddThe Song of the Lark
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American poet. What American poet wrote Montage to a Dream Deferred and The Weary Blues? - ttddLangston Hughes
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American poet. Many poems in Montage to a Dream Deferred references scenes from what New York City neighborhood where Hughes was a resident? - ttddHarlem
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American poet. This poem describes a journey taken by Abraham Lincoln to New Orleans and states that the narrator built a hut along the Congo. Identify this Langston Hughes poem that references the Congo, Mississippi, Euphrates and Nile rivers. - ttddThe Negro Speaks of Rivers
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of nonfiction. What politician who won a Grammy Award for best spoken-word novel for the novel It Takes a Village wrote about her time as Secretary of State in the novel Hard Choices? - ttddHillary Rodham Clinton
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of nonfiction. What politician and author of Dreams from my Father used a line from a sermon by Jeremiah Wright for his second novel, The Audacity of Hope? - ttddBarack Obama
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of nonfiction. This novel discusses votes by Sam Houston and Thomas Hart Benton to uphold the Missouri Compromise as well as the work of Edmund Ross to vote against Andrew Johnson's impeachment. In a 2008 autobiography, it was disclosed that most of this novel had actually been written by Ted Sorensen. Identify this Pulitzer-Prize winning novel by John F. Kennedy. - ttddProfiles in Courage
American Literature: Identify these lesser known works by famous American authors. Dick and Nicole Diver move to the south of France, where Dick has an affair with Marianne Hoyt in what novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald? - ttddTender is the Night
American Literature: Identify these lesser known works by famous American authors. The reverend T. Lawrence Shannon is expelled from his New Mexico church in what novel by Tennessee Williams? - ttddNight of the Iguana
American Literature: Identify these lesser known works by famous American authors. One character in this novel was turned in by Brenda Nicol following the murder of two men. The protagonist of this novel had recently broken up with Nicole Baker after being released from prison. This winner of the 1980 National Book Award revived the American discussion of capital punishment. Identify this novel about the death of Gary Gilmore by Norman Mailer. - ttddThe Executioner's Song
American Literature: Given a series of novels, identify the author. Number the Stars, The Giver - ttddLois Lowry
American Literature: Given a series of novels, identify the author. City of Bones and City of Ashes, both of which are part of The Mortal Instruments series? - ttddCassandra Clare
American Literature: Given a series of novels, identify the author. What screenwriter for the TV series Jericho is best known for the novel The Perks of Being a Wallflower? - ttddStephen Chbosky
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. What American author best known for his fiction wrote the travelogues Roughing It and The Innocents Abroad? - ttddMark Twain
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. What 1873 Twain novel is titled for an era of rapid industrial growth in the north and west that led to the rapid growth of wages over a thirty year period? - ttddThe Gilded Age
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. The central character in this story has a bulldog named Andrew Jackson and another character makes a wager on the fate of Parson Walker's wife. Identify this Twain short story about Jim Smiley, a gambler who makes bets with Dan'l Webster who is the title amphibian. - ttddThe Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County
American Literature: Identify the following characters from Arthur Miller's The Crucible. This man was pressed to death with stones after he refused to plead guilty or innocent to being charged with witchcraft. - ttddGiles Corey [accept either]
American Literature: Identify the following characters from Arthur Miller's The Crucible. This slave from Barbados prepares a potion for the girls to help them attract the boys they fancy. - ttddTituba
American Literature: Identify the following characters from Arthur Miller's The Crucible. John Proctor states that this character wishes to "dance with me upon my wife's grave," and she runs away with Mercy Lewis during the trials. The accuser of Elizabeth Proctor is what niece of Reverend Parris and antagonist of the play? - ttddAbigail Williams [accept either]
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. The Stage Manager narrates what novel about the Webb and Gibbs families that is set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire? - ttddOur Town
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Our Town is a play by what American author of The Bridge of San Luis Rey? - ttddThornton Wilder
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. This play takes its title from a line in Job 19:20 and is a hybrid of 20th century New Jersey and the Ice Age. Identify this Thornton Wilder play about George and Maggie Antrobus. - ttddThe Skin of Our Teeth
American Literature: What 19th century novel profiles the lives of Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy March? - ttddLittle Women
American Literature: Little Women is a novel by what American author who also wrote under the pen name A.M. Barnard? - ttddLouisa May Alcott
American Literature: This family friend of Alcott included the short stories "The Great Carbuncle" and "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment" in his short story collection, Twice Told Tales. A novel by this author is about Hepzibah Pyncheon who lives at the title New England mansion. Identify this American author of The House of the Seven Gables. - ttddNathaniel Hawthorne
American Literature: Identify these female American authors. What American poet wrote a three-act play entitled The King's Henchmen in addition to writing the poetry collection A Few Figs From Thistles? - ttddEdna St. Vincent Millay
American Literature: Identify these female American authors. What American poet wrote the poetry collection Suffrage Songs and Verses in addition to writing about a woman's psychosis in the short story "The Yellow Wallpaper"? - ttddCharlotte Perkins Gilman
American Literature: Identify these female American authors. This author wrote about the federal government's treatment of Native Americans in southern California in her novel Ramona. Identify this activist author who also profiled mistreatment of Native Americans in her novel, A Century of Dishonor. - ttddHelen Hunt Jackson
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and her works. The title character sleds into a tree with Mattie Silver to escape his marriage to Zeena in what novel? - ttddEthan Frome
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and her works. Ethan Frome is a novel by what American author who wrote The Custom of the Country? - ttddEdith Wharton
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and her works. At the end of this novel, one character sends his son up to a Paris apartment as he cannot bear to see his former love. That woman had moved to Paris after May Welland announced her pregnancy. Identify this Edith Wharton novel in which Newland Archer decides against leaving his wife for Ellen Olenska. - ttddThe Age of Innocence
American Literature: Identify the following works by Washington Irving. Set in Tarry Town, what Irving work tells the tale of the schoolteacher Ichabod Crane, who competes with Brom Bones for the hand of Katrina Van Tassel? - ttdd"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"
American Literature: Identify the following works by Washington Irving. Set in the years before the American Revolution, the title character escapes his wife's nagging by wandering into the mountains where he accidentally falls asleep for twenty years in what Irving story? - ttdd"Rip Van Winkle"
American Literature: Identify the following works by Washington Irving. Both the "Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip Van Winkle" appear in what collection attributed to the fictional Geoffrey Crayon? - ttddThe Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon, Gent.
American Literature: What American author wrote The Bridge to Terabithia? - ttddKatherine Paterson
American Literature: What American author wrote The Outsiders? - ttddS.E. Hinton
American Literature: What American author wrote Number the Stars? - ttddLois Lowry
American Literature: Identify the following works of Arthur Miller. Willy Loman is the title figure who deals with problems at work as well as with his sons Happy and Biff before ultimately committing suicide in what Miller play? - ttddDeath of a Salesman
American Literature: Identify the following works of Arthur Miller. The Reverend Parris, the slave Tituba, John and Elizabeth Proctor and Thomas and Ann Putnam all appear in what Miller play that is a semi-fictionalized retelling of the Salem Witch Trials? - ttddThe Crucible
American Literature: Identify the following works of Arthur Miller. Ann Deever's father is imprisoned for purposely manufacturing faulty aircraft engines, a crime actually committed by Joe Keller in what Arthur Miller play based on a true story about the Wright Aeronautical Corporation in Ohio? - ttddAll My Sons
American Literature: Answer these questions about John Green's novel The Fault in Our Stars. In the book, Hazel Grace Lancaster loves what novel that she reads repeatedly? She is eager to know what happens to the characters in this novel after it ends. - ttddAn Imperial Affliction
American Literature: Answer these questions about John Green's novel The Fault in Our Stars. An Imperial Affliction is written by this author who now lives in Amsterdam. This man surprisingly attends Augustus Waters' funeral toward the end of the book. - ttddPeter Van Houten
American Literature: Answer these questions about John Green's novel The Fault in Our Stars. What assistant to Van Houten is the one who invites Hazel and Augustus to Amsterdam and takes them to the Anne Frank House? - ttddLidewij [pronounced lead-AH-vie; be lenient]
American Literature: Identify these works by Caldecott winning authors. Maurice Sendak won the Caldecott award for what picture book about a boy named Max who dresses in a wolf costume? - ttddWhere the Wild Things Are
American Literature: Identify these works by Caldecott winning authors. Chris van Allsburg won the Caldecott for what children's book in which the title vehicle reaches the North Pole to see Santa Claus and his elves? - ttddPolar Express
American Literature: Identify these works by Caldecott winning authors. Van Allsburg won another Caldecott for this other children's book about Judy and Peter Shepherd playing a magical board game set in a jungle? - ttddJumanji
American Literature: Identify these works by Ernest Hemingway. A boy named Manolin idolizes the fisherman Santiago in what Ernest Hemingway novel? - ttddThe Old Man and the Sea
American Literature: Identify these works by Ernest Hemingway. Frederic Henry falls in love with Catherine Barkley in what Hemingway novel that was set during the first World War? - ttddA Farewell to Arms
American Literature: Identify these works by Ernest Hemingway. Lady Brett Ashley's relationship with Robert Cohn upsets the protagonist Jake Barnes in what Hemingway novel set against the backdrop of a Spanish bullfight? - ttddThe Sun Also Rises
American Literature: Identify these poems by Robert Frost. What Frost poem ends with the famous line "good fences make good neighbors"? - ttdd"Mending Wall"
American Literature: Identify these poems by Robert Frost. The narrator "took the one less traveled by" in what Frost poem set in a yellow wood? - ttdd"The Road Not Taken"
American Literature: Identify these poems by Robert Frost. "One could do worse than be a swinger of" what trees according to a Frost poem that he describes them bending from left to right? - ttdd"Birches"
American Literature: Answer these questions about the work of Walt Whitman. Whitman wrote several poems, including "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" to commemorate the death of what American president? - ttddAbraham Lincoln
American Literature: Answer these questions about the work of Walt Whitman. The title figure lies "fallen cold and dead" in what other Whitman poem that was written upon the death of Abraham Lincoln? - ttddO Captain! My Captain!
American Literature: Answer these questions about the work of Walt Whitman. "O Captain! My Captain!" and "When Lilacs Last In the Dooryard Bloom'd" were published in what collection of Whitman poems whose final edition contained over 400 works? - ttddLeaves of Grass
American Literature: Answer these questions relating to John Steinbeck. In Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath, what character delivers a stillborn baby toward the end of the book? - ttddRose of Sharon Joad Rivers
American Literature: Answer these questions relating to John Steinbeck. In Steinbeck's Grapes of Wrath, what former preacher who has lost his faith is killed by Tom Joad? - ttddJim Casy [accept either]
American Literature: Answer these questions relating to John Steinbeck. The Chinese servant Lee discusses the Hebrew word "timshel" in this novel, in which a boy drops out of Stanford after being shown his mother, Cathy Ames, working in a brothel. Aron and Caleb represent Cain and Abel in what Steinbeck novel about the Trask family? - ttddEast of Eden
American Literature: Answer these questions about works with female protagonists. Edna Pontellier walks into the Gulf of Mexico at the end of what Kate Chopin novel? - ttddThe Awakening
American Literature: Answer these questions about works with female protagonists. Alexandra Bergson narrates what novel about a family of Swedish immigrants settling in Hanover, Nebraska by Willa Cather? - ttddO Pioneers!
American Literature: Answer these questions about works with female protagonists. What daughter of Atticus Finch is the narrator of To Kill a Mockingbird? - ttddScout Finch
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Peyton Farquhar is sentenced to death by hanging from the title structure in what short story by Ambrose Bierce? - ttddAn Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Bill and Sam kidnap the son of Ebenezer Dorset, but end up having to pay him $250 to take the child back in what short story by O. Henry? - ttddThe Ransom of Red Chief
American Literature: Identify these short stories. The title character leaves his wife Faith to run an errand in the woods where he encounters Goody Cloyse in what short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne? - ttddYoung Goodman Brown
American Literature: Identify the following works of Edgar Allan Poe. The title creature of what Poe poem sits on a bust of Pallas and repeats the word "nevermore"? - ttdd"The Raven"
American Literature: Identify the following works of Edgar Allan Poe. The old man's vulture eye causes another man to commit murder in what Poe short story that features the beating of the title object? - ttdd"The Tell-Tale Heart"
American Literature: Identify the following works of Edgar Allan Poe. The Mad Tryst is read aloud in this work, and one character sings "The Haunted Palace." After falling into a deathlike trance, one character is eventually declared dead and entombed, but is actually still alive. Identify this Poe short story focusing on Madeleine, Roderick, and the collapse of the title structure. - ttdd"The Fall of the House of Usher"
American Literature: Answer these questions about Chicago. What American author of Rootabaga Stories wrote a poem entitled "Chicago"? - ttddCarl Sandburg
American Literature: Answer these questions about Chicago. What Lorraine Hansberry play about the Younger family was set in the Washington Park subdivision of Chicago? - ttddA Raisin in the Sun
American Literature: Answer these questions about Chicago. Caroline Meeber leaves her Wisconsin home to move to Chicago in Sister Carrie, a novel by what American author? - ttddTheodore Dreiser (accept "Sister Carrie" until mentioned)
American Literature: Identify these works of nonfiction. What 1775-1776 pamphlet by Thomas Paine was written to urge the American people to fight the Revolutionary War? - ttddCommon Sense
American Literature: Identify these works of nonfiction. Henry David Thoreau wrote what 1854 memoir describing his life living for two years in a cabin built near the title lake owned by his friend Ralph Waldo Emerson? - ttddWalden
American Literature: Identify these works of nonfiction. Margaret Mead wrote what study of adolescent girls on the island of Ta'u that was criticized by the sociologist Derek Freeman? - ttddComing of Age in Samoa
American Literature: Answer these questions about The Catcher in the Rye. What character who dislikes "phonies" is the protagonist of The Catcher in the Rye? - ttddHolden Caulfield (accept either name)
American Literature: Answer these questions about The Catcher in the Rye. At the opening of the novel, Holden has just been expelled from what school? - ttddPencey Prep
American Literature: Answer these questions about The Catcher in the Rye. One scene from the book is a conversation between Holden and a cab driver. In this scene, Holden wonders where all of the ducks from what location go in the winter? - ttddCentral Park
American Literature: Answer these questions about American author John Steinbeck. George Milton shoots Lennie Small in the back of the head at the end of what John Steinbeck novel? - ttddOf Mice and Men
American Literature: Answer these questions about American author John Steinbeck. The Joad family travels west from Oklahoma to California during the Dust Bowl in what novel by John Steinbeck? - ttddThe Grapes of Wrath
American Literature: Answer these questions about American author John Steinbeck. In this work, Steinbeck addresses problems with a "new America" that he encounters during a 10,000 mile journey. Identify this novella about a road trip taken by Steinbeck across the country with the title French poodle. - ttddTravels with Charley
American Literature: Answer these questions about F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. The novel is narrated by what man, the next door neighbor of Jay Gatsby? - ttddNick Carraway (accept either name)
American Literature: Answer these questions about F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. Throughout much of the novel, Nick is dating what golfer who attends parties at Gatsby's house? - ttddJordan Baker (accept either name)
American Literature: Answer these questions about F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby. This character commits suicide at the end of the novel after killing Gatsby. Identify this man who wrongly believed that Gatsby drove the car that killed his wife Myrtle. - ttddGeorge Wilson (accept either name)
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. In Cold Blood was written by what American author better known for creating the character Holly Golightly? - ttddTruman Capote
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. Holly Golightly meets the narrator and a bartender named Fred in what Truman Capote novel? - ttddBreakfast at Tiffany's
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. Capote was childhood friends with what American author of To Kill a Mockingbird? - ttddHarper Lee
American Literature: Answer these questions about literature from southern American authors. Thomas Sutpen moves to Mississippi from Virginia in what William Faulkner novel that is narrated by Quentin Compson? - ttddAbsalom, Absalom
American Literature: Answer these questions about literature from southern American authors. Quentin Compson also appears in what other Faulkner novel that recounts 30 years in the life of the Compson family living in Jefferson, Mississippi? - ttddThe Sound and the Fury
American Literature: Answer these questions about literature from southern American authors. What Texas-born author won the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for his novel Lonesome Dove? - ttddLarry McMurtry
American Literature: Answer these questions about Mark Twain. Hank Morgan is transported back in time and becomes a magician during the Middle Ages in what Twain novel? - ttddA Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
American Literature: Answer these questions about Mark Twain. Tom Canty switches places with Edward Tudor, the son of Henry VIII in what Twain novel? - ttddThe Prince and the Pauper
American Literature: Answer these questions about Mark Twain. The main character of this Twain work would "bet you how long it would take a straddle bug to get wherever he going to" and that character owns a bulldog named Andrew Jackson. A mysterious stranger uses quail shot to win a $40 dollar bet with Jim Smiley in what Twain short story about an amphibian named Dan'l Webster? - ttddThe Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County
American Literature: Wang Lung marries a former slave named O-Lan in what American novel based in China? - ttddThe Good Earth
American Literature: What Chinese-born American author won the Nobel Prize in Literature for writing The Good Earth? - ttddPearl S. Buck
American Literature: In one novel, this author wrote about Shadrack, a resident of an Ohio neighborhood known as The Bottom. Another novel by this author chronicles the life of Milkman Dead. In addition to writing Sula and Song of Solomon, this author won the Nobel Prize in Literature for novels about Pecola Breedlove and a woman named Sethe [Seth]. Identify this American author of The Bluest Eye and Beloved. - ttddToni Morrison
American Literature: Answer these questions about Ernest Hemingway. Robert Jordan is tasked to blow up a bridge during the Spanish Civil War in what Ernest Hemingway novel? - ttddFor Whom the Bell Tolls
American Literature: Answer these questions about Ernest Hemingway. Jake Barnes loves Lady Brett Ashley, but she has an affair with Robert Cohn in what Ernest Hemingway novel? - ttddThe Sun Also Rises
American Literature: Answer these questions about Ernest Hemingway. In A Moveable Feast, Hemingway discussed how this phrase was coined by a mechanic working in a garage. Members of a group by this name included Hemingway, John Dos Passos and F. Scott Fitzgerald. Identify this phrase, the use of which is attributed to Gertrude Stein, which describes writers who grew up during World War I. - ttddLost Generation
American Literature: Identify these southern American writers. What Mississippi-born author wrote Absalom Absalom and The Sound and the Fury? - ttddWilliam Faulkner
American Literature: Identify these southern American writers. What Georgia-born author wrote about Scarlett O'Hara in Gone with the Wind? - ttddMargaret Mitchell
American Literature: Identify these southern American writers. Jamie Lockhart kidnaps Rosamund Musgrove in this author's novel The Robber Bridegroom. In this author's best known novel, Laurel travels to New Orleans to take care of the ailing Judge McKelva. Identify this Mississippi-born author of The Optimist's Daughter. - ttddEudora Welty
American Literature: Answer these questions about the Beat Generation. What Beat Generation poem opens with the line "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness"? - ttdd"Howl"
American Literature: Answer these questions about the Beat Generation. "Howl" was written by what Beat poet who also wrote "Kaddish" and Reality Sandwiches? - ttddAllen Ginsberg
American Literature: Answer these questions about the Beat Generation. This author used the pseudonym William Lee to write about the confessions of a drug addict in the novel Junkie. A 1959 novel by this author contained chapters that were meant to be read in any order, and detailed a trip from the US to Tangiers, Morocco. Identify this Beat author of Naked Lunch. - ttddWilliam S. Burroughs
American Literature: Answer these questions about American author Judy Blume. The title character searches for a single religion in what novel by Judy Blume about a girl about to enter middle school? - ttddAre You There God, It's me Margaret
American Literature: Answer these questions about American author Judy Blume. A fifth grader named Jill Brenner bullies a classmate named Linda in what other novel by Judy Blume? - ttddBlubber
American Literature: Answer these questions about American author Judy Blume. Sequels to this novel include Superfudge, Fudge-a-mania, and Double Fudge. One character in this novel has a pet turtle named Dribble and is annoyed by his two-year old brother. Identify this Blume novel about Peter Hatcher. - ttddTales of a Fourth Grade Nothing
American Literature: Answer these questions about a fantasy adventure series. A math teacher named Mrs. Dodds turns into one of the Greek furies and attacks the narrator of what 2005 fantasy-adventure novel? - ttddPercy Jackson & the Olympians: The Lightning Thief
American Literature: Answer these questions about a fantasy adventure series. The Lightning Thief is one of five novels in the Percy Jackson tetralogy by what American author? - ttddRick Riordan
American Literature: Answer these questions about a fantasy adventure series. The title of this novel references the goddess of the hearth, Hestia, who refers to herself as the title figure. In this novel, Percy Jackson meets with Hermes after entering Olympus through the Empire State Building. Identify this sequel to The Battle of the Labyrinth, the final novel in the Percy Jackson tetralogy. - ttddThe Last Olympian
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What poet known for his dislike of capitalization wrote "i sing of olaf glad and big"? - ttdde.e. cummings
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What author of "Miniver Cheevy" wrote about a man who shot himself in his story "Richard Cory"? - ttddEdwin Arlington Robinson
American Literature: Identify these American poets. This author's first poetry collection was published anonymously and was entitled Tamerlane and Other Poems. William Legrand was bitten by the title creature in this author's "The Gold Bug" and he introduced the fictional detective C. Auguste Dupin in "The Murders in the Rue Morgue". Identify this American author of "Annabel Lee" and "The Raven". - ttddEdgar Allen Poe
American Literature: Answer these questions about Fireside Poets. What Fireside poet was known for the poetry collections Maud Muller and Snowbound? - ttddJohn Greenleaf Whittier
American Literature: Answer these questions about Fireside Poets. What Fireside poet and father of a future Supreme Court Chief Justice wrote The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table? - ttddOliver Wendell Holmes Sr.
American Literature: Answer these questions about Fireside Poets. A speaker in one of this man's poems hopes "that in the long way [he] must tread alone" and described the title creature's "solitary way." Another poem by this man suggests not "going like the quarry-slave at night" and to "lie down to pleasant dreams." Identify this long-time New York Post editor and American poet who wrote "To a Waterfowl" and a meditation on death called "Thanatopsis." - ttddWilliam Cullen Bryant
American Literature: Identify these famous American novels. The Joad family is driven from the Dust Bowl of Oklahoma west to California in what Steinbeck novel? - ttddThe Grapes of Wrath
American Literature: Identify these famous American novels. George Milton is forced to shoot the mentally disabled Lennie Small at the end of what Steinbeck novel? - ttddOf Mice and Men
American Literature: Identify these famous American novels. Fedallah predicts that a character in this novel will be killed by hemp and Father Mapple preaches about following God's destiny. In this novel, Starbuck is the first mate and Queequeg is a harpooner on the Pequod. This novel begins with the line, "Call me Ishmael." Identify this Herman Melville novel about a white whale. - ttddMoby Dick
American Literature: Answer some questions about early American poets. This poet wrote about how the title president was "first in peace and honors" in "To His Excellency George Washington" and about her journey as a slave in "On Being Brought from Africa to America." - ttddPhyllis Wheatley
American Literature: Answer some questions about early American poets. This poet wrote that "If ever two were one, then surely we" in "To My Dear and Loving Husband" and also wrote a poem about the burning of her house. - ttddAnne Bradstreet
American Literature: Answer some questions about early American poets. In addition to "The Wild Honeysuckle" this poet's most famous poem imagines the "posture that we give the dead" in a certain place, in which the title figures' "do not lie, they sit" with bows still "ready for action bent." Name this poet of "The Indian Burying Ground", often called the Poet of the American Revolution. - ttddPhilip Freneau
American Literature: Answer these questions about a famous American author. What author of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court is better known for a novel featuring Injun Joe and a character whitewashing a fence? - ttddMark Twain OR Samuel Langhorne Clemens
American Literature: Answer these questions about a famous American author. What character created by Mark Twain expresses his feelings for Amy Lawrence before falling for Becky Thatcher? - ttddTom Sawyer (accept either underlined answer)
American Literature: Answer these questions about a famous American author. One character in this novel meets Miles Hendon, a soldier who is returning from the war. One character in this novel lives with his abusive father on Pudding Lane in London, while another character is the son of King Henry VIII. Identify this Mark Twain novel in which the poor Tom Canty switches places with Prince Edward. - ttddThe Prince and the Pauper
American Literature: Answer these questions about To Kill a Mockingbird. What American author wrote the novel? - ttddHarper Lee
American Literature: Answer these questions about To Kill a Mockingbird. What character from To Kill a Mockingbird is the sister of Jem and serves as the narrator of the novel? - ttdd(Jean Louise) Scout Finch
American Literature: Answer these questions about To Kill a Mockingbird. This character was injured by a cotton gin as a child, which left his left arm basically useless. Atticus Finch uses this injury as part of his defense of this man, who was killed in prison at the end of the novel. Identify this black man who was accused of raping Mayella Ewell. - ttddTom Robinson (accept either underlined name)
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. What American poet wrote an elegy to a deceased President in his poem "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" and "O Captain, My Captain"? - ttddWalt Whitman
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Those poems were written following the assassination of what American President? - ttddAbraham Lincoln
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. One work in this collection includes the line ''For every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.'' In addition to containing "Song of Myself", almost 400 other poems were included in the "Deathbed Edition" of this collection. Identify this collection of poems by Whitman that includes "O Captain, My Captain". - ttddLeaves of Grass
American Literature: Identify these New England authors. What Fireside Poet, who was the father of a future Supreme Court justice, wrote Autocrat of the Breakfast Table and the poem "Old Ironsides"? - ttddOliver Wendell Holmes Sr.
American Literature: Identify these New England authors. What other Fireside poet and former editor of the New York Evening Post is best known for writing a meditation on death entitled "Thanatopsis"? - ttddWilliam Cullen Bryant
American Literature: Identify these New England authors. One collection by this author includes the poem "The Saga of King Olaf" and is entitled Tales of a Wayside Inn. One poem by this author includes the character Minnehaha, while another features a scene in which lanterns are hung in the Old North Church. Identify this American author of "The Song of Hiawatha" and "Paul Revere's Ride". - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
American Literature: Identify these American plays. Emily Webb marries George Gibbs and dies during childbirth in what Thornton Wilder play set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire? - ttddOur Town
American Literature: Identify these American plays. Abigail Williams accuses Elizabeth Proctor of witchcraft in what allegorical play by Arthur Miller about the "witch hunts" of the 1950s? - ttddThe Crucible
American Literature: Identify these American plays. A servant in this play named Cathleen steals whiskey from the central family. One man in this play named Doc Hardy diagnoses Edmund with tuberculosis, while a character in this play named Mary is addicted to morphine. Identify this play about the alcoholic Tyrone family by Eugene O'Neill. - ttddLong Day's Journey Into Night
American Literature: Identify these colorful works of literature. In what Nathaniel Hawthorne novel does Pearl turn out to be the child of Hester Prynne and Reverend Dimmesdale? - ttddThe Scarlet Letter
American Literature: Identify these colorful works of literature. The title character is bullied by dogs like Lip-Lip and eventually moves to California with Weedon Scott in what novel by Jack London? - ttddWhite Fang
American Literature: Identify these colorful works of literature. One group of men in this novel is described as ''mule drivers'' and ''mud diggers.'' While alone, this novel's protagonist stumbles upon the "tattered" soldier and later his friend, Jim Conklin, dies due to loss of blood. Henry Fleming serves during the US Civil War in what novel by Stephen Crane? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature whose titles contain cities or states. George Willard appears in what collection of stories set in a fictional midwestern town by Sherwood Anderson? - ttddWinesburg, Ohio
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature whose titles contain cities or states. The Piano Lesson and Fences are included in a collection of plays by August Wilson that are named for what American city? - ttddPittsburgh Cycle
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature whose titles contain cities or states. The title entity of this work is described as "flinging magnetic curses" and is dubbed the "Nation's Freight Handler". The title entity of this work is also described as a "stacker of wheat" and a "city of big shoulders'. Identify this city that is the subject of a poem by Carl Sandburg. - ttdd"Chicago"
American Literature: Identify these female American authors. What American author wrote about Scarlet O'Hara in the novel Gone with the Wind? - ttddMargaret Mitchell
American Literature: Identify these female American authors. What American author wrote about Edna Pontelier in The Awakening? - ttddKate Chopin
American Literature: Identify these female American authors. Team C: What American author wrote about Alexandra Bergson in O Pioneers! - ttddWilla Cather
American Literature: Answer these questions about novels that have appeared on the New York Times Best Seller List for Non-Fiction in 2016. What comedian reached Number One on the Best Seller List with her 2016 novel The Girl with the Lower Back Tattoo? - ttddAmy Schumer
American Literature: Answer these questions about novels that have appeared on the New York Times Best Seller List for Non-Fiction in 2016. What New Jersey born rocker hit Number One on the list in September with a novel based on a hit album entitled Born to Run? - ttddBruce Springsteen
American Literature: Answer these questions about novels that have appeared on the New York Times Best Seller List for Non-Fiction in 2016. This man discussed the differences between "traditionalists" and "secular progressives" in his 2006 novel Culture Warrior. He attacked Barack Obama in his 2010 novel Pinheads and Patiots and wrote a memoir entitled A Bold Fresh Piece of Humanity. Identify this author of Killing the Rising Son who is a Fox News columnist who hit Number One on the Best Seller List with Killing Reagan. - ttddBill O'Reilly
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Mark Twain. Hank Morgan goes back in time to medieval England in what novel by Mark Twain? - ttddA Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Mark Twain. Tom Driscoll grows up believing to be a white aristocrat after being switched at birth by a slave named Roxy in what novel by Mark Twain? - ttddPudd'nhead Wilson
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Mark Twain. Two men in this story named Lawyer Wilson and Shadbelly Bilson bicker over the content of a note. This story ends with the title location changing its name in shame. This story centers on a sack of gold dropped off at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Richards before being given to Reverend Burgess. Identify this Twain short story about an "incorruptible" town. - ttdd"The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg
American Literature: What American author wrote White Fang and The Call of the Wild? - ttddJack London
American Literature: In what short story by Jack London does an unnamed narrator die of hypothermia in the Yukon Territory after being unable to perform the title action? - ttddTo Build a Fire
American Literature: One character in this novel is set adrift in the ocean by his brother Death and later dies from a stroke. The central character of this novel falls in love with a woman who makes $1,800 per year named Maud Brewster. The protagonist of this novel is a literary critic who survives a shipwreck and is rescued by Captain Larson. Identify this novel by Jack London about Humphrey van Weyden. - ttddThe Sea Wolf
American Literature: Identify the following American poems. This poem states that "the horses heads / were toward eternity". Name this Emily Dickinson poem that states how the title figure "kindly stopped for me". - ttdd"Because I Could Not Stop For Death"
American Literature: Identify the following American poems. This poem's narrator mentions how his horse "must think it queer" and ends with the repeated line "And miles to go before I sleep". Name this Robert Frost poem. - ttdd"Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening"
American Literature: Identify the following American poems. This poem implores the reader to "go forth under the open sky" and to join the "innumerable caravan". This poem was written by the author when he was seventeen, and ends by describing a man who "lies down to pleasant dreams". Identify this poem about death written by William Cullen Bryant. - ttdd"Thanatopsis"
American Literature: With what US state are Emily Dickinson and Louisa May Alcott most closely associated? - ttddMassachusetts
American Literature: With what US state are Washington Irving and James Fenimore Cooper most closely associated? - ttddNew York
American Literature: One author from this state wrote about Laurel McKelva in the novel The Optimist's Daughter. Another author from this state created the fictional Yoknapatawpha County in such novels as The Sound and the Fury and Absalom, Absalom. Identify this US state that was the home to Eudora Welty and William Faulkner. - ttddMississippi
American Literature: Answer these questions about a literary movement. What American author wrote the poetry collections The Weary Blues and Montage of a Dream Deferred? - ttddLangston Hughes
American Literature: Answer these questions about a literary movement. Langston Hughes was a member of a literary movement that was centered in what New York neighborhood? - ttddHarlem
American Literature: Answer these questions about a literary movement. One character in this novel is bitten by a rabid dog that attacks him during a hurricane. That character in this novel begins to attack his wife, who shoots him in self-defense. That man, Tea Cake, is the third husband of this novel's protagonist, who is also married to Logan Killicks and Jody Starks. Identify this novel about Janie Crawford that was written by Zora Neale Hurston. - ttddTheir Eyes Were Watching God
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and their works. A house at 124 Bluestone Road is haunted by the daughter of Sethe in what novel? - ttddBeloved
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and their works. Beloved is a novel by what African-American author? - ttddToni Morrison
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and their works. One character in this novel had her house burned down by her mentally disturbed father Cholly. That character in this novel is adopted by the family of Claudia MacTeer. This novel is set in Lorain, Ohio following the Great Depression and centers on Pecola Breedlove, who desires the central feature. Identify this novel by Toni Morrison. - ttddThe Bluest Eye
American Literature: What is the last name of Biff, Happy, and Willy, the central family in Death of a Salesman? - ttddLoman
American Literature: What is the last name of Ma, Pa, Tom, and Al, the central family in The Grapes of Wrath? - ttddJoad
American Literature: One member of this family goes to a pharmacy trying to obtain an abortion, while another member of this family makes a cast out of concrete after breaking his leg. Another member of this family is sent to the Mississippi State Insane Asylum after being convicted of setting fire to a farm. The matriarch of this family dies and is buried in the town of Jefferson. Identify this family from William Faulkner's As I Lay Dying that includes Cash, Dewey Dell, and Addie. - ttddBundren
American Literature: Answer these questions about novels set in Chicago. What American author of Humboldt's Gift wrote about "an American - Chicago born" in The Adventures of Augie March? - ttddSaul Bellow
American Literature: Answer these questions about novels set in Chicago. What American author set his novels The Titan and Sister Carrie in the city of Chicago? - ttddTheodore Dreiser
American Literature: Answer these questions about novels set in Chicago. In this novel, the protagonist befriends a girl named Sally, who ditches her at a carnival where she is sexually assaulted. The protagonist of this novel lives across the street from Lucy and Rachel Guerrero, two girls from Texas who live across from her. Identify this novel about Esperanza Cordero by Sandra Cisneros. - ttddThe House on Mango Street
American Literature: Chief Bromden is the narrator of what novel that sees Randle McMurphy lobotomized after attacking Nurse Ratched? - ttddOne Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
American Literature: One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a novel by what American author who was linked to the Beat Generation? - ttddKen Kesey
American Literature: One character in this novel spends a night on Skid Row hoping to find his homeless father. One character in this novel meets Stan Shepherd and afterwards agrees to travel to Mexico City. This novel used the character Old Bull Lee to represent William S. Burroughs, while other authors were represented by Carlo Marx and Dean Moriarty. Identify this Beat Generation novel by Jack Kerouac. - ttddOn the Road
American Literature: Identify these novels by American author Stephen King. Jack Nicholson starred in the movie adaptation of what Stephen King novel about Jack Torrance, a man who accepts a position as the winter caretaker at a Colorado hotel? - ttddThe Shining
American Literature: Identify these novels by American author Stephen King. James Caan and Kathy Bates starred in the movie adaptation of what Stephen King novel about an author named Paul Sheldon who is nursed back to health by the deranged Annie Wilkes following a car accident? - ttddMisery
American Literature: Identify these novels by American author Stephen King. One character in this novel is harassed by a group of bullies led by Henry Bowers. Stan Uris commits suicide in this novel after being invited to return to the town of Derry. Tim Curry and John Ritter starred in the movie adaptation of this Stephen King novel, which includes the famous line "we all float down here". Identify this Stephen King novel featuring Pennywise the Clown. - ttddIt
American Literature: Answer these questions about an author and his characters. What poetic character is a Boston silversmith sent to warn the people of Boston of the arrival of the British? - ttddPaul Revere
American Literature: Answer these questions about an author and his characters. Paul Revere's Ride is a poem by what American author of The Courtship of Miles Standish? - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
American Literature: Answer these questions about an author and his characters. This character's mother is named Wenonah and she was seduced by the West Wind. This character slays an evil magician named Pearl-Feather and at the end of the poem in which he appears, he departs for the west after the arrival of Christian missionaries. Identify this Longfellow character who loves Minnehaha and was born "by the shores of Gitchee Gumee". - ttddHiawatha OR The Song of Hiawatha
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. What American author used her home state of Nebraska as the setting for many of her novels, including O Pioneers!? - ttddWilla Cather
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Thea Kronberg moves to Chicago from a small town in Colorado to develop her singing in what novel by Willa Cather? - ttddThe Song of the Lark
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. One character in this novel named Lena Lindgard moves from the country into town to become a dressmaker. The title character of this novel marries Anton Cuzak, with whom she has ten children. The title character and Jim Burden are both brought to Black Hawk, Nebraska in this novel. Identify this Willa Cather novel named for the title Bohemian immigrant. - ttddMy Antonia
American Literature: Herbert White is killed in an accident after his parents make a wish using the title object in what short story by W.W. Jacobs? - ttdd"The Monkey's Paw"
American Literature: Reverend Hooper refuses to remove the title object in what short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne? - ttdd"The Minister's Black Veil"
American Literature: The central character of this story fails for seven nights to shine a light on an old man's "vulture eye". On the eighth night of this story, he succeeds in killing the old man and dismembers his body beneath the floorboards. The central figure in this story confesses to the police due to the beating of the title object in what short story by Edgar Allen Poe? - ttdd"The Tell-Tale Heart"
American Literature: Identify these female authors. Most of this author's works were published in Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. What female poet wrote "To His Excellency, George Washington". - ttddPhyllis Wheatley
American Literature: Identify these female authors. This author wrote The Author to her Book and To My Dear and Loving Husband. Identify this female Puritan poet whose works were published in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America. - ttddAnne Bradstreet
American Literature: Identify these female authors. In a poem about pregnancy, this woman wrote "Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children". In addition to writing about flowers that "eat my oxygen" in "Tulips", she repeated "I think I made you up inside my head" in Mad Girl's Love Song. What author wrote "you do not do / any more, black shoe" in Daddy, and created Esther Greenwood in The Bell Jar? - ttddSylvia Plath
American Literature: Answer these questions about literary pen names. What American founding father and author of Poor Richard's Almanac used the pen name Silence Dogood? - ttddBenjamin Franklin
American Literature: Answer these questions about literary pen names. William Sidney Porter was the real name of what American author who wrote "The Gift of the Magi" and "The Ransom of Red Chief" - ttddO. Henry
American Literature: Answer these questions about literary pen names. This author used the pen names Launcelot Langstaff and Will Wizard to write a fictional periodical called Salgamundi. This man's first book was written under the pen name Jonathan Oldstyle and he also wrote under the pen name Diedrich Knickerbocker. Identify this American author best known for writing "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow". - ttddWashington Irving
American Literature: Answer these questions about muckraking literature. Jurgus Rudkus works in a Chicago meatpacking plant in what novel? - ttddThe Jungle
American Literature: Answer these questions about muckraking literature. The Jungle is a novel by what American author who also wrote the novel Oil!? - ttddUpton Sinclair
American Literature: Answer these questions about muckraking literature. One section of this work depicts people living at the Bayard Street Tenement. Dr. Chay Yen Chong sells medicine in Chinatown in one section of this work, which also depicts a street known as Newspaper Row in its chapter The Street Arab. The slums of New York City were depicted in what work of photojournalism by Jacob Riis? - ttddHow the Other Half Lives
American Literature: Identify these American authors. What American author included the books The 42th Parallel, 1919 and The Big Money as part of his USA Trilogy? - ttddJohn Dos Passos
American Literature: Identify these American authors. What American author created fictional towns in his novels Arrowsmith, Dodsworth and Babbitt? - ttddSinclair Lewis
American Literature: Identify these American authors. In one novel by this author, Undine Spragg moves to New York City from the fictional town of Apex. In addition to writing The Custom of the Country, this author wrote about a socialite named Lily Bart in The House of Mirth. The best-known novel by this author of The Age of Innocence is about a man who sleds into a tree with Ellen Olenska. Identify this American author of Ethan Frome. - ttddEdith Wharton
American Literature: Identify these American novels. Gene Forrester returns to Devon Academy in what novel by John Knowles? - ttddA Separate Peace
American Literature: Identify these American novels. Former baseball star Troy Maxson is working as a trash collector in what play by August Wilson that is part of the Pittsburgh cycle? - ttddFences
American Literature: Identify these American novels. In this novel, a sportswriter named Max Mercy writes a story about the failure of the central character to get a raise. This novel is loosely based on the shooting of Eddie Waitkus, a former Philadelphia Phillie. The central character of this novel plays for the New York Knights and has a bat known as "Wonderboy". Identify this novel about baseball prodigy Roy Hobbs by Bernard Malamud. - ttddThe Natural
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Tessie Hutchinson is stoned to death in what short story by Shirley Jackson? - ttdd"The Lottery"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. The unnamed protagonist freezes to death after being unable to perform the title action in what short story by Jack London? - ttdd"To Build a Fire"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. One character in this story notes that the Queen of Sheba would be jealous of her prized possession. Madame Sofronie gives one character in this story twenty dollars, so that she can buy a chain for her husband's watch, but finds out that he sold that watch to buy her tortoise shell combs. Identify this short story about Jim and Della's quest for Christmas gifts by O.Henry. - ttdd"The Gift of the Magi"
American Literature: What work, originally called The Cynics Word Book, defined a lawyer as someone "skilled in circumvention of the law"? - ttddThe Devil's Dictionary
American Literature: The Devil's Dictionary was written by what American author of the short story "Chickamauga"? - ttddAmbrose Bierce
American Literature: This story first appeared in the collection Tales of Soldiers and Civilians and includes a scene in which the protagonist walks thirty miles to a plantation. As the protagonist of this story meets his wife, he feels a striking blow on the back of his neck. Identify this story by Ambrose Bierce that was revealed to be a dream before Peyton Farquhar was hung from the title structure. - ttdd"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"
American Literature: Questions in this category will deal with Catch-22. Who wrote it? - ttddJoseph Heller
American Literature: Questions in this category will deal with Catch-22. The majority of events in the novel take place on what island in the Mediterranean? - ttddPianosa
American Literature: Questions in this category will deal with Catch-22. Team C: What 1994 book is the sequel to Catch-22? - ttddClosing Time
American Literature: Identify these works by 20th century women. The impoverished farmer Wang Lung marries O-Lan in what novel set in China by Pearl Buck? - ttddThe Good Earth
American Literature: Identify these works by 20th century women. John Galt gives a nearly hundred-page speech in what Ayn Rand novel about the VP of a railroad company, Dagny Taggart? - ttddAtlas Shrugged
American Literature: Identify these works by 20th century women. Toss-Up: A character in this novel kills himself due to financial issues, leaving the protagonist and her brother Ambrosch to work his farmland themselves. After moving to Lincoln, the narrator of this novel begins dating Lena Lingard. Jake Marpole first informs the narrator of this novel about the immigrant Shimerda family, who live in Black Hawk, Nebraska. Jim Burden narrates what Willa Cather novel? - ttddMy Antonia
American Literature: Identify these 20th century novelists. What author wrote about New York high society in novels such as The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence? - ttddEdith Wharton
American Literature: Identify these 20th century novelists. What author wrote such 20th century horror novels as Cujo, The Shining, and Carrie? - ttddStephen King
American Literature: Identify these 20th century novelists. Toss-Up: This author collected stories such as "The Bear" in the collection Go Down, Moses. In one novel by this author, Addie narrates a chapter despite being dead. Another novel by this author focuses on the Compson family, including the siblings Caddy, Quentin, and Benjy. Identify this Southern author of As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury. - ttddWilliam Faulkner
American Literature: Identify these poems. In what Gwendolyn Brooks poem does a group of pool players "lurk late" and "strike straight"? - ttdd"We Real Cool"
American Literature: Identify these poems. What Wallace Stevens poem opens "Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eye of" the title avian? - ttdd"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
American Literature: Identify these poems. Toss-Up: The narrator of this poem asks "How should I presume?" after noting that he has "known the evenings, mornings, afternoons," and has "measured out my life with coffee spoons." The narrator of this poem hears "mermaids singing each to each" and also hears the "women come and go talking of Michelangelo." Identify this poem by T.S. Eliot. - ttdd"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"
American Literature: Identify these 19th century American authors and poets. What 19th century American poet's works include "The Song of Hiawatha" and "Paul Revere's Ride?" - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
American Literature: Identify these 19th century American authors and poets. What 19th century American author wrote The Leatherstocking Tales, which includes the novel The Last of the Mohicans? - ttddJames Fenimore Cooper
American Literature: Identify these 19th century American authors and poets. Toss-Up: This man's short story collection Mosses from an Old Manse includes one story about a woman whose father makes her poisonous, "Rappaccini's Daughter," and another story about a man who encounters the devil, "Young Goodman Brown." In a novel by this author, Pearl is the daughter of Reverend Dimmesdale and Hester Prynne, who must wear the title letter on her chest. Identify this author of The Scarlet Letter. - ttddNathaniel Hawthorne
American Literature: Name these American novels. The sadistic Simon Legree tortures the title old slave in what Harriet Beecher Stowe novel that stirred up abolitionist sentiments among many 19th century Americans? - ttddUncle Tom's Cabin
American Literature: Name these American novels. The immigrant Jurgis Rudkus struggles to find work in Chicago's meatpacking district in what Upton Sinclair novel? - ttddThe Jungle
American Literature: Name these American novels. Toss-Up: In this novel, one character burns down the Gillespie farm in an attempt to stop his family from reaching Jefferson. Another character in this novel recalls building a coffin "on a bevel" for his mother. Darl, Cash, and Dewey Dell are among the children of Anse and Addie, who narrates a chapter of this novel after she dies. What is this novel about the Bundren family by William Faulkner? - ttddAs I Lay Dying
American Literature: Identify the following "colorful" works of literature. The "tattered soldier" meets Henry Fleming in what novel set during the Civil War by Stephen Crane? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Identify the following "colorful" works of literature. "So much depends upon" what object that is "glazed with rainwater beside the white chickens" according to a William Carlos Williams poem? - ttdd"The Red Wheelbarrow"
American Literature: Identify the following "colorful" works of literature. Toss-Up: In this novel, Jim Hall attempts to murder a judge, only to be attacked and killed by the title character. Two men delivering coffins to Fort McGurry are attacked in this novel, with only Henry surviving. The title character of this novel saves Mit-Sah from a gang of bullies but is later almost killed by a bulldog named Cherokee. Grey Beaver and Weedon Scott are owners of what character, the title wolf dog of a Jack London novel? - ttddWhite Fang
American Literature: Identify the following novels with female protagonists. The title character of this Lucy Maud Montgomery novel makes "bosom friends" with Diana Barry when she moves to Nova Scotia to live on the Cuthberts' farm. - ttddAnne of Green Gables
American Literature: Identify the following novels with female protagonists. This Alice Walker novel focuses on the life of Celie, a woman who is physically and sexually abused by her father before her arranged marriage to an abusive man identified as "Mister". - ttddThe Color Purple
American Literature: Identify the following novels with female protagonists. One character in this novel tells the protagonist that she was chosen by a spirit to be his company for the night. Mrs. Highcamp invites the protagonist of this novel to the racetrack where she meets Alcee Arobin, with whom she starts an affair. Upon his return from Mexico, Robert Lebrun is unable to connect with the protagonist of this novel as he did when she vacationed at Grand Isle. What Louisiana-set novel about Edna Pontellier was written by Kate Chopin? - ttddThe Awakening
American Literature: Identify some works whose titles come from poems. A line from Paul Laurence Dunbar's poem "Sympathy" provides the title for what first autobiography by Maya Angelou? - ttddI Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
American Literature: Identify some works whose titles come from poems. A line from a Robert Burns poem to an animal whose nest has been disturbed provides the title for what John Steinbeck novel? - ttddOf Mice and Men
American Literature: Identify some works whose titles come from poems. The line "he may be so ill" follows the title of this novel in the poem for which this novel is named. That poem is "Meditation XVII [17]" by John Donne. In this novel, some horses are stolen by El Sordo to help another troop. After stealing detonators in this novel, Pablo decides to carry out the task of blowing up a bridge used by fascist soldiers. Robert Jordan fights for the Spanish Republicans in what Ernest Hemingway novel? - ttddFor Whom the Bell Tolls
American Literature: Identify some literary families. Vardaman, Anse, Dewey Dell, and Addie are all members of what central family of William Faulkner's As I Lay Dying? - ttddThe Bundrens
American Literature: Identify some literary families. Amanda, her shy daughter Laura, and her son Tom are all members of what central family of Tennessee Williams' The Glass Menagerie? - ttddThe Wingfields
American Literature: Identify some literary families. One member of this family attempts to dissuade her husband from going into business with Bobo and Willy Harris. A member of the Clybourne Park Improvement Association, Karl Linder, attempts to convince this family to move out of the home they just bought because the residents don't want Black neighbors. After the death of this family's patriarch, Mama inherits $10,000 from an insurance check. Beneatha, Lena, and Walter are members of what central family of Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Son? - ttddThe Youngers
American Literature: Identify some characters from American literature. John Updike created Harry Angstrom, a former high school basketball player who goes by what animal nickname? - ttddHarry Rabbit Angstrom
American Literature: Identify some characters from American literature. What character begins an inappropriate relationship with 12 year old Dolores Haze in Vladimir Nabokov's novel Lolita? - ttddHumbert Humbert
American Literature: Identify some characters from American literature. This character offers a pair of silk stockings to The Woman in Boston and reprimands his wife for mending hers. This character's brother gets rich from mining diamonds in Africa and invites this character to Alaska with him. After failing to secure a loan, this character's son calls him a "failure," leading to his suicide by car crash. What "liked but not well liked" character titles Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman? - ttddWilly Loman
American Literature: Identify some works of war literature. Scarlett O'Hara attempts to save her plantation Tara in the wake of William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea in what Margaret Mitchell novel? - ttddGone with the Wind
American Literature: Identify some works of war literature. "Listen my children and you shall hear" opens what Henry Wadsworth Longfellow poem about the title patriot's famous historical action at the Old North Church? - ttdd"Paul Revere's Ride"
American Literature: Identify some works of war literature. One character in this novel is only identified by her relationship with Natley, who dies in combat shortly after she falls in love with him. In this novel, buying all of Egypt's cotton is a feat undertaken by M&M Enterprises, run by Milo Minderbinder. The island of Pianosa is the setting of what World War II novel about Captain John Yossarian, written by Joseph Heller? - ttddCatch-22
American Literature: Identify these American novels. The role of the church in the lives of African-Americans is discussed in what semi-autobiographical novel by James Baldwin whose name references a Christian spiritual song? - ttddGo Tell it on the Mountain
American Literature: Identify these American novels. Different members of the Compson family narrate what novel by William Faulkner whose title comes from a line from Macbeth's tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow soliloquy? - ttddThe Sound and the Fury
American Literature: Identify these American novels. A Lithuanian immigrant named Jurgis Rudkus gets a job in the Chicago meatpacking district in what muckraking novel by Upton Sinclair? - ttddThe Jungle
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of John Green. The Colonel, Takumi, and Pudge all deal with the possible suicide of their friend in what Green novel whose title character shares her name with a state? - ttddLooking for Alaska
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of John Green. Quentin and Margo leave dead catfish in the rooms of Margo's enemies before she runs away in what Green novel? - ttddPaper Towns
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of John Green. One character in this novel takes a road trip to the supposed burial site of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The central character of this novel gets a job in Gutshot, Tennessee producing strings. Colin Singleton meets Lindsey on a road trip with his friend Hassan and dates her, the first girl he has dated that does not have the title name, in what Green novel? - ttddAn Abundance of Katherines
American Literature: Identify these poems by American authors. The line "good fences make good neighbors" appears in what poem by Robert Frost? - ttdd"Mending Wall"
American Literature: Identify these poems by American authors. The narrator has "miles to go before I sleep" in what other poem by Robert Frost? - ttdd"Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening"
American Literature: Identify these poems by American authors. Toss-Up: This poem notes that "houses and rooms are full of perfumes" before going on to state that "you shall possess the best of the earth and sun". The speaker of this poem states that he "bequeaths himself to the dirt" and that "every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you". Identify this poem included in the collection Leaves of Grass, a Walt Whitman poem that opens with the line "I celebrate myself". - ttdd"Song of Myself"
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. What American author wrote Blood Meridian and the Pulitzer Prize winning novel The Road? - ttddCormac McCarthy
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. What novel by Cormac McCarthy takes its title from "Sailing to Byzantium" and is about a drug deal gone wrong along the US/Mexico border? - ttddNo Country for Old Men
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author and his works. This novel is the first in a collection that also includes The Crossing and Cities of the Plain. The central figure of this story encounters Jimmy Blevins just after crossing the Mexican border, and is accompanied on his trip by his friend Lacey Rawlins. Identify this Cormac McCarthy novel about 16-year old John Grady Cole. - ttddAll the Pretty Horses
American Literature: Identify these American novels. The title character of what Herman Melville novel is impressed aboard the HMS Bellipotent where he accidentally strikes and kills John Claggart? - ttddBilly Budd
American Literature: Identify these American novels. The title character of what Theodore Dreiser novel lives with her love interest George Hurstwood until she becomes a successful chorus girl in New York? - ttddSister Carrie
American Literature: Identify these American novels. Toss-Up: In this novel, David Buckley attempts to persuade the protagonist to not accept a communist lawyer suggested to him by Jan Erlone. The protagonist of this novel is chased across some snowy rooftops by a white vigilante mob. In this novel's first book, Fear, the protagonist accepts a job as a chauffeur for the Dalton family, though on his first night he accidentally smothers Mary. Name this novel about Bigger Thomas by Richard Wright. - ttddNative Son
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Jim sells his pocketwatch in order to buy a present for Della in what short story by O. Henry? - ttdd"The Gift of the Magi"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. The unnamed narrator dies along a trail in the Yukon in what short story by Jack London about a man who does not follow a warning to not hike alone in frigid temperatures? - ttdd"To Build a Fire"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. The narrator of this story does not insist that he is innocent of his crime, simply that he was sane while committing it. The central event of this story happens on the eighth night of planning after a beam of light falls on a "vulture eye". The narrator confesses his crime to the police in what Edgar Allen Poe short story in which the narrator hears the title object beating from beneath the floorboards. - ttdd"The Tell Tale Heart"
American Literature: Identify these American novels. Turtle Wexler solves the mystery of what happened to the title figure in what novel by Ellen Raskin? - ttddThe Westing Game
American Literature: Identify these American novels. Stanley Yelnats is sent to Camp Green Lake in what novel by Louis Sachar? - ttddHoles
American Literature: Identify these American novels. After being shot in this novel, Tom Loker is brought to a Quaker camp to receive medical treatment. At the beginning of this novel, Tom Shelby is set to lose his farm because of rising debt. In this novel, Augustine St. Clair purchases Topsy and the title character from slave traders. The title character of this novel is killed on the orders of Simon Legree. Identify this novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe. - ttddUncle Tom's Cabin
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What Harlem Renaissance poet included "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" in his poetry collection The Weary Blues? - ttddLangston Hughes
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What author, best known for her novel I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, read her poem "On the Pulse of Morning" at the inauguration of Bill Clinton? - ttddMaya Angelou
American Literature: Identify these American poets. This author discussed a creature with a "slow, uncertain, stumbling, buzz" in the poem "I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died". Another poem by this author describes a carriage that held "Immortality" and "kindly stopped for" the author. Identify this reclusive Massachusetts poet who wrote "Because I Could Not Stop for Death". - ttddEmily Dickinson
American Literature: Answer these questions about JD Salinger. In The Catcher in the Rye, Holden Caulfield leaves what boarding school following a fight with his roommate Stradlater? - ttddPencey Prep
American Literature: Answer these questions about JD Salinger. Holden Caulfield later asks a cabdriver where the ducks from what location go during the winter? - ttddCentral Park
American Literature: Answer these questions about JD Salinger. The patriarch of this family is Les, a retired vaudeville performer. Les's son was first introduced in the story Raise High the Roofbeam, Carpenter and appeared with other members of this family on the radio show It's a Wise Child. The best-known appearance of this family came in a pair of stories, one of which was set in a New York City apartment. Identify this central family in the novella Franny and Zooey. - ttddGlass family
American Literature: Answer these questions about Ernest Hemingway. What is the name of the aging fisherman who is the central character in The Old Man and the Sea? - ttddSantiago
American Literature: Answer these questions about Ernest Hemingway. Santiago spends portions of the novel discussing his love for what New York Yankees baseball player, who was known for his marriage to Marilyn Monroe and his 56-game hitting streak? - ttddJoe DiMaggio
American Literature: Answer these questions about Ernest Hemingway. This character's father is summoned to the title location in Hemingway's short story "Indian Camp". This character arrives in the town of Seney, Michigan to find the town destroyed by fire in Hemingway's short story "Big Two Hearted River". Hitmen Max and Al tie up this character in the short story "The Killers". Identify this recurring semi-autobiographical Hemingway character who comes of age in a series of 24 short stories. - ttddNick Adams (Accept either underlined name)
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Blanche DuBois moves in with her sister Stella and her husband Stanley Kowalski in what play by Tennessee Williams? - ttddA Streetcar Named Desire
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. Amanda Wingfield seeks a gentleman caller for her daughter Laura in what play by Tennessee Williams? - ttddThe Glass Menagerie
American Literature: Answer these questions about an American author. One member of this family is a former football star who is troubled by the death of his friend Skipper. Another member of this family is one of the largest cotton planters in the south and is unknowingly dying of cancer. A third member of this family pretends to be pregnant in order to gain a share of an inheritance. Brick, Maggie and Big Daddy are all members of what family in Tennessee Williams' play Cat on a Hot Tin Roof? - ttddPollitt
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What American poet who oftentimes did not use capitalization wrote the poem "anyone lived in a pretty how town"? - ttddee cummings
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What Beat generation poet stated that "I've seen the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" in his poem "Howl"? - ttddAllen Ginsberg
American Literature: Identify these American poets. A collection of poems written by this author is entitled Spring and All. This author also wrote a five volume epic poem named for a New Jersey city entitled Paterson. Identify this author who wrote about the title object "glazed with rain water beside the white chickens" in his poem "The Red Wheelbarrow". - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Kentuck dies alongside the title character in what Bret Harte short story about the child of Cherokee Sal? - ttdd"The Luck of Roaring Camp"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. A man with a serpent-shaped staff greets the title character before going to a witches' sabbath in what Nathaniel Hawthorne short story about the husband of Faith? - ttdd"Young Goodman Brown"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Toss-Up: This short story begins with a description of the blooming flowers, and Clyde Dunbar had broken his leg prior to the beginning of this short story. Bobby, Harry, and Dickie are all looking for pebbles in this story, in which one character states, "they'll be wanting to go back to living in caves." A coal company manager in this story retrieves a three-legged stool and a black wooden box. That character, Mr. Summers helps Mr. Graves conduct the title event. "It wasn't fair" is yelled by Tessie Hutchinson after she has won what title event of a Shirley Jackson short story? - ttdd"The Lottery"
American Literature: Identify these 20th century American authors. Gary Gilmore decides to be killed by a firing squad in The Executioner's Song, a novel by what American author? - ttddNorman Mailer
American Literature: Identify these 20th century American authors. Charles Lindbergh becomes president in the novella The Plot Against America which is by what Jewish-American author? - ttddPhilip Roth
American Literature: Identify these 20th century American authors. Toss-Up: A character named Odd Henderson bullies the protagonist of this author's story "The Thanksgiving Visitor," and in another story by this author, Mrs. Miller is frequently visited by a girl with the same first name, "Miriam." The orphan Collin Fenwick is the central character in one story by this author who also wrote about a teenager struggling with the death of his mother in Other Voices, Other Rooms. Identify this author who wrote about the Clutter family in In Cold Blood and about Holly Golightly in Breakfast at Tiffany's. - ttddTruman Capote
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature titled for cities. What city is referred to as "hog butcher for the world" in a poem by Carl Sandburg? - ttdd"Chicago"
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature titled for cities. The Hotel New Hampshire is a novel by what American author of The World According to Garp and A Prayer for Owen Meany? - ttddJohn Irving
American Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature titled for cities. One story in this collection entitled "Godliness" is the only story to be presented in multiple parts. The first story in this collection is entitled "The Book of the Grotesque", and most stories in this collection tell the story of George Willard. Identify this short story collection by Sherwood Anderson that was based on his life in Clyde, Ohio. - ttddWinesburg, Ohio
American Literature: Answer these questions about American novels. Paul Riesling shoots his wife Zilla in Babbitt, a novel by what American author? - ttddSinclair Lewis
American Literature: Answer these questions about American novels. The fictional language of Nadsat is spoken in A Clockwork Orange, a dystopian novel by what American author? - ttddAnthony Burgess
American Literature: Answer these questions about American novels. Eveanna and Beverly are the eldest children of the central family in this novel that sees the murder of younger siblings Nancy and Kenyon. The author of this novel worked with his childhood friend Harper Lee to conduct research about a crime committed in Holcomb, Kansas by Perry Smith and Dick Hickock. Identify this nonfiction novel about the murder of the Clutter family by Truman Capote. - ttddIn Cold Blood
American Literature: Identify these works of literature that have colors in their titles. Hester Prynne is forced to wear the title object as a punishment for committing adultery in what novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne? - ttddThe Scarlet Letter
American Literature: Identify these works of literature that have colors in their titles. Private Henry Fleming deserts his unit during the Civil War in what novel by Stephen Crane? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Identify these works of literature that have colors in their titles. After being captured by Grey Beaver, the title character of this novel is injured in a fight with Lip-Lip. The title character of this novel is trained to fight after being sold to Beauty Smith. Weedon Scott brings the title character from Alaska to California, where he defends Judge Scott, in what novel by Jack London? - ttddWhite Fang
American Literature: Name these American plays. George and Martha play a game called "Get the Guest" with the couple Nick and Honey in what play by Edward Albee? - ttddWho's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
American Literature: Name these American plays. Grover's Corners, New Hampshire is the setting of what Thornton Wilder play about Emily Webb and George Gibbs that is narrated by the Stage Manager? - ttddOur Town
American Literature: Name these American plays. The main female character in this play wanted to be a pianist or a nun when she was younger. One man in this work points out his father's snoring by quoting Othello: ''The Moor, I know his trumpet''. A servant in this play is a ''buxom Irish peasant'' named Cathleen, who drinks the main family's alcohol. Identify this play about the Tyrone family, where Edmund gets tuberculosis and Mary is addicted to morphine, a work by Eugene O'Neill. - ttddLong Day's Journey into Night
American Literature: Name these American authors. This author created the fictional Mississippi county of Yoknapatawpha, which is the setting of this author's novels Sartoris and Absalom, Absalom. - ttddWilliam Faulkner
American Literature: Name these American authors. This author drew upon her experience as a Civil War nurse in her works Hospital Sketches and Little Women. - ttddLouisa May Alcott
American Literature: Name these American authors. This man advocated for "honest men" to voluntarily be locked in jail in protest of slavery in an essay in which this author reflects on his own time in jail for refusing to pay a poll tax. This author claimed that "The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation" in "Economy", the opening chapter of his most famous work. Detailing his 2 year experiment living in a cabin in the woods in Walden was what transcendentalist author? - ttddHenry David Thoreau
American Literature: Identify these short stories. The title character sleeps for 20 years in the Catskill Mountains and awakens after the American Revolution in what short story by Washington Irving? - ttddRip Van Winkle
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Ichabod Crane vies for the hand of Katrina von Tassel with Brom Bones in what short story by Washington Irving? - ttddThe Legend of Sleepy Hollow
American Literature: Identify these short stories. This story was originally published in the Overland Monthly, a magazine published by its author. This story features a song about the ship Arethusa that was sung by Man O'War. One scene in this story sees the flooding of the North Fork River that results in the death of Kentuck. The title character of this story is thought to be a savior after being born to Cherokee Sal. Identify this short story by Bret Harte. - ttddThe Luck of Roaring Camp
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poetry. In this poem, a man asks Stetson if the corpse he planted last spring has begun to sprout. Identify this poem, which begins ''April is the cruelest month.'' - ttdd"The Wasteland"
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poetry. This five part poem by the author of "The Wasteland" begins with a quote from Heart of Darkness. Identify this poem whose final lines states ''this is the way the world ends, not with a bang but a whimper.'' - ttdd''The Hollow Men''
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poetry. This poem's speaker says he should have been a pair of ragged claws scuttling across the floors of silent seas. This poem begins with a six line quotation from The Inferno. The title speaker, who is ''Not Prince Hamlet'' has ''measured out his life in coffee spoons'' and ''wears a necktie rich and modest.'' Identify this Eliot poem in which ''The women come and go / Talking of Michelangelo. - ttdd"The Love Song of J Alfred Prufrock"
American Literature: Identify the following poems. This Wallace Stevens poem begins "Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eye of" the title bird. - ttdd"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
American Literature: Identify the following poems. This Robert Frost poem ends with the narrator musing that he still "has miles to go before I sleep" - ttdd"Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening"
American Literature: Identify the following poems. Some of the characters mentioned in this poem include children who "strove at recess" and "the Setting Sun." The narrator of this poem recalls passing "fields of gazing grain" and a house "that seemed a swelling of the ground." The narrator surmises that the carriage in which she and the title character are riding is heading "toward eternity." The title character "kindly stops" for the narrator of what Emily Dickinson poem? - ttdd"Because I could not stop for Death"
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What American poet who oftentimes did not use capitalization wrote the poem "anyone lived in a pretty how town"? - ttddee cummings
American Literature: Identify these American poets. What Beat generation poet stated that "I've seen the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" in his poem "Howl"? - ttddAllen Ginsberg
American Literature: Identify these American poets. A collection of poems written by this author is entitled Spring and All. This author also wrote a five volume epic poem named for a New Jersey city entitled Paterson. Identify this author who wrote about the title object "glazed with rain water beside the white chickens" in his poem "The Red Wheelbarrow". - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
American Literature: Answer these questions about Pulitzer Prize winning American plays. What author, who finished second in 1995 for his play The Cryptogram, won the 1984 Pulitzer Prize for Drama for his play Glengarry, Glen Ross? - ttddDavid Mamet
American Literature: Answer these questions about Pulitzer Prize winning American plays. What American playwright won three Pulitzer Prizes for Drama in the 1920s for his plays Beyond the Horizon, Anna Christie, and Strange Interlude? - ttddEugene O'Neill
American Literature: Answer these questions about Pulitzer Prize winning American plays. This play is divided into three acts entitled "Daily Life", "Love and Marriage" and "Death and Dying". In this play, Si Crowell discusses how another character is wasting his basketball talents shortly before that character gets married. Emily Webb dies during childbirth in this play that is narrated by the Stage Manager. Grover's Corners, New Hampshire is the setting of what play by Thornton Wilder? - ttddOur Town
American Literature: Answer some questions about literature of the 1800s. "The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation" is a quote from what work by Henry David Thoreau, in which he chronicles his time in the cabin he built on the title pond? - ttddWalden
American Literature: Answer some questions about literature of the 1800s. What African American social activist described his wrestling bout with the slave breaker Covey and his escape from slavery in his famous autobiography? - ttddFrederick Douglass
American Literature: Answer some questions about literature of the 1800s. In this novel, the sage Tamenund releases a group of prisoners, except for Alice's sister. With the help of a magical bear costume, the singing teacher David Gamut and the protagonist of this novel rescue Uncas from the Hurons. Magua kidnaps Cora, the daughter of Colonel Munro in this novel in which Hawkeye is friends with the title character, Chingachgook. Identify this installation of The Leatherstocking Tales by James Fenimore Cooper. - ttddThe Last of the Mohicans
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poets. What 19th century American poet wrote "The Chambered Nautilus" and "Old Ironsides"? - ttddOliver Wendell Holmes Sr.
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poets. What 20th century American poet wrote "Fog" and "Chicago"? - ttddCarl Sandburg
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poets. Tossup: The author of this collection faced obscenity charges over the poems "To A Common Prostitute" and ''Unfolded Out of the Folds''. The author of this collection released a "deathbed edition" that contained almost 400 of his poems. In one poem from this collection, a young boy watches mockingbirds nest, while another poem in this collection was written after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. Identify this collection that includes "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd", "Song of Myself" and other poems by Walt Whitman. - ttddLeaves of Grass
American Literature: Name these poets of the 20th century. What poet who wrote "maggie and milly and molly and may" and "anyone lived in a pretty how town" was known for his aversion to capitalization? - ttddEdward Estlin Cummings
American Literature: Name these poets of the 20th century. What poet of "This is Just to Say" included the poem "The Red Wheelbarrow" in his collection Spring and All? - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
American Literature: Name these poets of the 20th century. Tossup: One work by this poet is the subject of H.P. Lovecraft's ''Waste Paper: A Poem of Profound Insignificance". This poet included an epigraph from Heraclitus in his poem "Burnt Norton" and he discussed his conversion to Anglicanism in the poem "Ash Wednesday". This poet included the line "this is the way the world ends/ Not with a bang but a whimper" in his poem "The Hollow Men". Identify this author who stated that "April is the cruelest month" in "The Waste Land". - ttddT.S. Eliot
American Literature: Identify some short stories. The protagonist of what Jack London short story struggles to complete the title action to keep himself warm in the harsh Yukon? - ttdd"To Build a Fire"
American Literature: Identify some short stories. In what Herman Melville story does the title character reply "I would prefer not to" to requests to do his job? - ttdd"Bartleby, the Scrivener"
American Literature: Identify some short stories. Tossup: One character in this story recounts the story of Edgar Atkins Teagarden, who used to carve his initials into watermelons he gave to her. That character in this story mistakes a random road for one that leads to an old house she wants to show her family, which leads her son to flip their car into a ditch. The Misfit and his gang terrorize members of the central family in what story by Flannery O'Connor? - ttdd"A Good Man is Hard to Find"
American Literature: Identify some characters from American literature. This character says "All right then, I'll go to hell!" when he makes the decision to help save Jim from being sold up river in a novel titled for him by Mark Twain. - ttddHuckleberry Finn
American Literature: Identify some characters from American literature. This son of the West Wind falls in love with Minnehaha "by the shores of Gitchee Gumee" in a poem named for his "Song" by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. - ttddHiawatha
American Literature: Identify some characters from American literature. This character is first introduced to the narrator of the novel in which she appears when she is caught watching him from the fire escape. This character loses her child with Jose Ybarra-Jaeger in a horse riding accident in Central Park. This character was played on film by Audrey Hepburn. Truman Capote created what protagonist of Breakfast at Tiffany's? - ttddHolly Golightly (or Holiday Golightly)
American Literature: Identify some novels of the 1950s. In what Ayn Rand novel does Dagny Taggart attempt to "save" her railroad company from collectivization and ponder the inane question "Who is John Galt?" - ttddAtlas Shrugged
American Literature: Identify some novels of the 1950s. In what Ralph Ellison novel does the unnamed narrator get involved with the activist group the Brotherhood, drawing the ire of Ras the Exhorter? - ttddInvisible Man
American Literature: Identify some novels of the 1950s. The narrator of this novel spends a brief time picking cotton to support a Mexican woman named Terry and her 7-year-old son. One character in this novel wants to take his lover with him to San Francisco so that he can be with her and his wife Camille. At the end of this novel, Remi Boncoeur refuses to give a ride to a character based on Neal Cassady, Dean Moriarty. Sal Paradise narrates what Jack Kerouac novel about a series of trips across America? - ttddOn the Road
American Literature: Name some novels set during World War II. What Joseph Heller novel focuses on the bombardier Yossarian and his missions on the island of Pianosa? - ttddCatch 22
American Literature: Name some novels set during World War II. In this Kurt Vonnegut novel, Billy Pilgrim's memories of the firebombing of Dresden are jumbled with his memories of the planet Tralfamadore. - ttddSlaughterhouse Five
American Literature: Name some novels set during World War II. The protagonists of this novel form a club they call the Super Suicide Society of the Summer Session, the members of which jump off of the same tree every night. The protagonist's friend Leper joins a military ski group in this novel, which traumatizes him. The friendship between the boys Gene and Finny is the focus of what John Knowles novel? - ttddA Separate Peace
American Literature: Name some expatriate authors. This author wrote about her time in Paris with her life partner in The Autobiography of Alice B Toklas and is famous for coining the term "lost generation" to describe expat authors. - ttddGertrude Stein
American Literature: Name some expatriate authors. This author spent much of the Roaring 20s in France, where he began to write his novel about American vacationers on the French Riviera, Tender is the Night. - ttddF. Scott Fitzgerald
American Literature: Name some expatriate authors. This author created a character who kills Guillaume after being fired from his bar. That title character has a relationship with David, despite David's heterosexual relationship with Hella. In addition to Giovanni's Room, this author wrote many essays about race relations in America including The Fire Next Time and Notes of a Native Son. In another novel by this author, 14 year old John Grimes has a religious awakening in his stepfather's church. What expatriate African-American wrote Go Tell It on the Mountain? - ttddJames Baldwin
American Literature: Identify some authors of trilogies. What author wrote about a trilogy about a Chinese family, including Wang Lung and O Lan, in The Good Earth? - ttddPearl S. Buck
American Literature: Identify some authors of trilogies. Paul Auster wrote a trilogy named for what city that is also the setting of Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man? - ttddNew York City
American Literature: Identify some authors of trilogies. In one novel in this author's trilogy, Billy Parham watches the death of his friend who got into a knife fight with Eduardo. In addition to Cities of the Plain, another novel in this author's trilogy, the teens Lacey Rawlins and John Grady Cole survive a stint in prison after being arrested by some Mexican Rangers. What author's Border Trilogy includes All the Pretty Horses? - ttddCormac McCarthy
American Literature: Identify these works by American authors. Jim sells his pocket watch while Della sells her hair to buy Christmas gifts in what short story by O. Henry? - ttdd"The Gift of the Magi"
American Literature: Identify these works by American authors. The Cynic's Word Book is the alternative title of what Ambrose Bierce work that defines a lawyer as "one skilled in circumvention of the law"? - ttddThe Devil's Dictionary
American Literature: Identify these works by American authors. One woman in this story had earlier refused to help June Starr get ready for a trip to Florida. In this story, the cat Pitty Sing jumps onto the driver of a car, which causes a confrontation with the antagonist, who shoots the Grandmother. This story revolves around Bailey and his family going on vacation, which is interrupted by an escaped convict named The Misfit. Identify this short story by Flannery O'Connor. - ttdd"A Good Man is Hard to Find"
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poetry. "Lady Lazarus", "Ariel" and "Daddy" are poems by what American author? - ttddSylvia Plath
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poetry. "This is Just to Say" and "The Red Wheelbarrow" are poems by what American author? - ttddWilliam Carlos Williams
American Literature: Answer these questions about American poetry. One poem from this collection compares an isolated soul in "measureless oceans of space" to the title creature that "launch'd forth filament, filament, filament". This collection which contains "A Noiseless Patient Spider", includes a section entitled "Drum Taps". The speaker proclaims "the ship has weather'd every rack" in a notable poem from what collection by Walt Whitman that contains "O Captain, My Captain!"? - ttddLeaves of Grass
American Literature: Name some early American poets. This transcendentalist poet wrote about the "shot heard round the world" during a Revolutionary War battle in his poem "Concord Hymn." - ttddRalph Waldo Emerson
American Literature: Name some early American poets. This poet wrote that the addressee of one poem would "lie down" with "kings [and] the powerful of the earth" in his meditation on death, "Thanatopsis." - ttddWilliam Cullen Bryant
American Literature: Name some early American poets. The narrator of one poem by this author was "so faint I could not speak" and bemoans that "my burning flesh in sweat did boil." In addition to "For Deliverance from a Fever," this poet compared "whole mines of gold" with her love for the title character. Another poem by this author ends with the line "My hope and treasure lies above," in response to the title conflagration. What early American poet wrote "To My Dear and Loving Husband" and "Upon the Burning of Our House"? - ttddAnne Bradstreet
American Literature: Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning novels. The 1947 Pulitzer went to this Robert Penn Warren novel about the political career of Willie Stark. - ttddAll the King's Men
American Literature: Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning novels. The 1926 Pulitzer went to this Sinclair Lewis novel about the title doctor from Winnemac discovering the cure to the plague. - ttddArrowsmith
American Literature: Identify these Pulitzer Prize winning novels. In this novel, Regina Beaufort approaches Mrs. Manson Mingott for a loan, causing the elderly woman to have a stroke. While on a trip to Paris in this novel, Dallas arranges a visit between his father and another character. That character, Ellen Olenska returns to Europe upon discovering that May Welland is pregnant with Newland Archer's husband. New York is the setting of what Edith Wharton novel? - ttddThe Age of Innocence
American Literature: Identify these American authors. What American author wrote about Captain Ahab's attempts to capture the title whale in Moby Dick? - ttddHerman Melville
American Literature: Identify these American authors. What American author wrote about the fireman Guy Montag in Fahrenheit 451? - ttddRay Bradbury
American Literature: Identify these American authors. In one story by this author, Aylmer's wife Georgiana has the title red spot on her face. This author of "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment" and "The Birthmark" included the Pyncheon family in a book about the title haunted building. Reverend Dimmesdale turns out to be Pearl's father in a novel by this author that focuses on Hester Prynne. What author created The House of the Seven Gables and The Scarlet Letter? - ttddNathaniel Hawthorne
American Literature: Identify these 19th century authors. What author wrote narratives including My Bondage, My Freedom about his time in slavery before beginning publication of his abolitionist newspaper The North Star? - ttddFrederick Douglass
American Literature: Identify these 19th century authors. What transcendentalist author encouraged protesting governmental injustices in the essay "Civil Disobedience" and wrote about his time living on the title lake in Walden? - ttddHenry David Thoreau
American Literature: Identify these 19th century authors. Toss-Up: This author wrote narratives based on his time on the island of Nuku Hiva called Omoo and Typee. One character created by this author punches Claggart, who had falsely accused him of starting a mutiny on the HMS Bellipotent. In this author's most famous novel, a coffin is used as a flotation device by Ishmael, who survives the wreck of the Pequod after a run in with the title whale. Identify this author of Billy Budd and Moby Dick. - ttddHerman Melville
American Literature: Identify these short stories. In what Jack London short story does an unnamed protagonist attempt to combat the effects of hypothermia in the Yukon by undertaking the title action? - ttdd"To Build a Fire"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Bill and Sam kidnap the 10-year-old Johnny, only to eventually pay to give him back, in what O. Henry short story? - ttdd"The Ransom of Red Chief"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Toss-Up: One character in this story shows another one a trowel to prove that he is a mason. One character in this story remarks that Luchresi [loo-KRASE-ee] would not be able to tell the difference between Sherry and the title substance. The narrator of this story leads another character into his family's catacombs to bury Fortunato alive. Montresor is the protagonist of what Edgar Allan Poe story named for an Italian wine? - ttdd"The Cask of Amontillado"
American Literature: Name some American poets. What poet wrote about a love triangle in "The Courtship of Miles Standish" and about a Native American mythological figure in "The Song of Hiawatha?" - ttddHenry Wadsworth Longfellow
American Literature: Name some American poets. What poet of the Rootabaga Stories wrote about a city that is the "Hog Butcher for the World" in his poem "Chicago?" - ttddCarl Sandburg
American Literature: Name some American poets. Toss-Up: This poet wrote "My aching head did break" in the poem "For Deliverance from a Fever." This poet wrote that "whole mines of gold" are not as valuable as the love of the title figure. In another poem, this poet wrote that her "hope and treasure lies above after a fire." Identify this early American poet of "To My Dear and Loving Husband" and "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House." - ttddAnne Bradstreet
American Literature: Name these Jewish-American authors. The scientific study of psychohistory was created in what sci-fi author's Foundation series? This author created the "Three Laws of Robotics" in the story "Runaround." - ttddIsaac Asimov
American Literature: Name these Jewish-American authors. "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" is the first line of what Beat writer's poem "Howl"? - ttddAllen Ginsberg
American Literature: Name these Jewish-American authors. Toss-Up: In one story by this author, the young boy Ozzie Freeman threatens to jump off a roof if a crowd of people doesn't recognize the divinity of Jesus. In addition to writing "The Conversion of the Jews" for his collection Goodbye, Columbus, this author wrote about Seymour Levov, who is idolized by Nathan Zuckerman. Identify this Jewish-American author who wrote American Pastoral. - ttddPhilip Roth
American Literature: Identify these works of wartime literature. Billy Pilgrim survives the bombing of Dresden by hiding in the title building in what novel by Kurt Vonnegut? - ttddSlaughterhouse-Five
American Literature: Identify these works of wartime literature. John Yossarian flies as a bombardier for Squadron 256 on the island of Pianosa in what novel by Joseph Heller? - ttddCatch-22
American Literature: Identify these works of wartime literature. Toss-Up: In one scene from this novel, the protagonist throws a pinecone at a squirrel and watches it run away, which mirrors how he ran from a battle. The protagonist of this novel watches Jim Conklin die before receiving the title wound after being bumped in the head with a rifle. Henry Fleming fights for the Union army in what novel by Stephen Crane? - ttddThe Red Badge of Courage
American Literature: Identify some African American poets. What Dayton-born poet wrote "I know why the caged bird sings" in his poem "Sympathy" and described an object that "grins and lies" in "We Wear the Mask?" - ttddPaul Laurence Dunbar
American Literature: Identify some African American poets. What poet wrote about seven pool players at the Golden Shovel who "jazz june" and "die soon" in her poem "We Real Cool?" - ttddGwendolyn Brooks
American Literature: Identify some African American poets. Tossup: In one poem, this author writes that "Tomorrow . . . they'll see how beautiful I am / And be ashamed." In addition to "I, Too," this poet wrote another poem whose narrator remembers bathing "in the Euphrates when dawns were young" and looking "upon the Nile." The narrator of another of this author's poems asks "What happens to a dream deferred?" What poet of "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" was the leading figure of the Harlem Renaissance? - ttddLangston Hughes
American Literature: Identify some African American authors and poets. What poet, anthropologist, and author created a character named Janie Crawford in her novel Their Eyes Were Watching God? - ttddZora Neale Hurston
American Literature: Identify some African American authors and poets. What poet read her "On the Pulse of Morning" at the inauguration of Bill Clinton, and wrote about her own life in I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings? - ttddMaya Angelou
American Literature: Identify some African American authors and poets. Toss-Up: This author wrote about being "the only colored student in my class" in his poem "Theme for English B." This poet wrote about a man playing a "drowsy syncopated tune" in "The Weary Blues." The most famous work by this poet wondered what happened to a "dream deferred". Identify this poet and major figure in the Harlem Renaissance. - ttddLangston Hughes
American Literature: Identify these short stories. In what O. Henry short story does Della sell her hair to buy a watch chain for her husband Jim, who sells his watch to buy his wife a comb set? - ttdd"The Gift of the Magi"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. In what Ambrose Bierce story is Peyton Farquhar condemned to hanging after attempting to sabotage some Union soldiers? - ttdd"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"
American Literature: Identify these short stories. Toss-Up: The narrator of this story asks "How, then, am I mad?" after claiming to have heard "many things in hell." One character in this story is described as having a pale blue "eye of a vulture." The narrator of this story hears a sound made by the title object while he is interrogated by police for the murder of his neighbor. What Edgar Allan Poe story is named for an organ? - ttdd"The Tell-Tale Heart"
American Literature: Identify these 20th century American plays. Emily Webb and George Gibbs meet in the town of Grover's Corners, New Hampshire in what play by Thornton Wilder? - ttddOur Town
American Literature: Identify these 20th century American plays. Blanche Dubois moves to New Orleans to live with Stanley and Stella Kowalski in what play by Tennessee Williams? - ttddA Streetcar Named Desire
American Literature: Identify these 20th century American plays. Toss-Up: One character in this play steals a fountain pen belonging to Bill Oliver. That character in this play later recalls witnessing his father cheat on his mother when he was in high school. Howard fires this play's protagonist, after which he crashes his car to get his family his insurance money. Biff is the son of Willy Loman, the main character of what play by Arthur Miller? - ttddDeath of a Salesman
American Literature: Answer these questions about 20th century American literature. What 20th century American playwright wrote Ah, Wilderness but is better known for his Tony Award winning play Long Day's Journey Into Night? - ttddEugene O'Neill
American Literature: Answer these questions about 20th century American literature. What 20th century American author of Song of Solomon won a Pulitzer Prize for her novel Beloved? - ttddToni Morrison
American Literature: Answer these questions about 20th century American literature. Toss-Up: In one play by this author, Harry and Edna move in with the married couple Agnes and Tobias. In addition to writing A Delicate Balance, this author wrote a one-act play about two men who meet on a Central Park bench entitled The Zoo Story. In this author's best-known play, a young couple named Nick and Honey attend an awkward house party hosted by George and Martha. Identify this 20th century American playwright who wrote Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? - ttddEdward Albee
American Literature: Answer the following questions about Jack London. In this London novel, the main character was formerly owned by Judge Miller and kills Spitz while part of a sled dog team. He eventually attacks a group of Yeehat natives after they kill his master John Thornton. - ttddThe Call of the Wild
American Literature: Answer the following questions about Jack London. In this other London novel, Grey Beaver finds Kiche and her cub, the title character who is used by Beauty Smith for dog fighting before being bought by Weedon Scott. - ttddWhite Fang
American Literature: Answer the following questions about Jack London. In one novel by London, a man with this profession named Pat Glendon Jr. marries Maud Sangster who interviews him and helps reveal corruption within his profession. In London's story "The Mexican", Felipe Rivera engages in this profession to support a revolutionary junta in Mexico. Another man with this profession, Tom King, is too poor to afford the title "Piece of Steak" before eventually quitting because of his age. Danny Ward is another London character with this profession that is contracted to engage another man in this profession in which he loses despite his fame at it. Identify this profession which was corrupted by fixed fights and includes practitioners like Muhammad Ali. - ttddBoxer [accept word forms like boxing; prompt on "fighter" or equivalents]
American Literature: Answer these questions about American literary movements. This postmodern movement with members including Neal Cassidy and Lawrence Ferlinghetti rejected conflict and the arms race in favor of Eastern Ideals, as seen in the poem "Wichita Vortex Sutra." - ttddBeat generation
American Literature: Answer these questions about American literary movements. Beat poets met in this city during the Six Gallery Reading where one poem which later faced an obscenity trial was first read. Ferlinghetti's City Lights Bookstore is located in this California city. - ttddSan Francisco
American Literature: Answer these questions about American literary movements. This author claimed "Everything/Is Ignorant of its own emptiness" in the one hundred thirteenth section of his collection Mexico City Blues. This author included sections of his Book of Haikus in a novel in which the protagonist joins Ray Smith and Henry Morley in climbing Matterhorn Peak in California. In that novel, by this man, Ray and Japhy Ryder represent the title characters heavily influenced by Buddhism. In another novel by this author, originally written on a scroll, Carlo Marx is visited by some of his friends before Sal Paradise returns to San Francisco. Name this American author of The Dharma Bums and On the Road. - ttddJack Kerouac
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Edgar Allan Poe. Poe described his process of writing this poem as well as general rules for poetry in his essay "The Philosophy of Composition." The speaker of this poem hears "rapping at my chamber door" before the title creature perches itself on a "pallid bust of Pallas." - ttdd"The Raven"
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Edgar Allan Poe. In "The Raven," the speaker mourns the loss of this "sainted maiden" lover. In another poem, the speaker asks for "An anthem for the queenliest dead" referring to this character. - ttddLenore
American Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Edgar Allan Poe. In Poe's story "A Predicament," Signora Psyche Zenobia is decapitated by one of these objects but continues to talk as her servant Pompey runs away. In another story, a town whose name references one of these objects is obsessed with them and cabbages, before a fiddle player kills a villager operating one of them. In a third story, one of these objects causes a "brief disconcert of the whole gay company" before everyone continues dancing. In that story, one of these objects made of ebony signals the arrival of the Red Death at midnight. Name these large objects, whose chiming periodically interrupts guests of Prince Prospero. - ttddClock [accept synonyms]
American Literature: Identify these African American authors. In one of this author's novels, children are named by flipping to random Bible passages, like First Corinthians. Milkman Dead searches for gold with Guitar in that novel, Song of Solomon. - ttddToni Morrison [accept Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
American Literature: Identify these African American authors. In one of this author's novels, Celie marries Mister despite his initial attraction to Nettie, Celie's sister. They both want to escape their abusive father Alphonso. Identify this author of The Color Purple. - ttddAlice Malsenior Walker
American Literature: Identify these African American authors. One work by this author suggests that racial tension would be reduced if people abandoned Christianity and its hypocrisies. That work by him describes a dinner party in which he met Elijah Muhammad. This author criticized Richard Wright for portraying Bigger Thomas as a stereotypical African American person in his essay "Notes of a Native Son." This author described a homosexual affair between David and the title character who is about to be guillotined in the beginning of his novel Giovanni's Room. Identify this author of Go Tell It on the Mountain. - ttddJames Arthur Baldwin
American Literature: Name these American authors from the South. This author wrote about the death of Collin Fenwick's parents in The Grass Harp and about the murder of the Clutter family in In Cold Blood. - ttddTruman Capote
American Literature: Name these American authors from the South. This author defended segregation in his essay "The Briar Patch" and more famously wrote about the corrupt governor Willie Stark in All the King's Men. - ttddRobert Penn Warren
American Literature: Name these American authors from the South. This author wrote a novel in which Lena Grove searches for her child's father, Lucas Burch, who may or may not be the murderer of the religious Joanna Burden. Another novel by this author ends with Reverend Shegog's Easter sermon being attended by Luster, Dilsey, and Benjy, who reminisces about the kindness of his sister Caddy. In addition to those novels about Joe Christmas and the Compson family, this author wrote about Anse and his family transporting Addie's coffin to the seat of the fictional Yoknapatawpha County, Jefferson, Mississippi. Name this author of Light in August, The Sound and the Fury, and As I Lay Dying. - ttddWilliam Faulkner