Answer these questions about American artists. What artist coined the phrase ˈˈfifteen minutes of fame⸴ˈˈ worked at a studio called ˈˈThe Factory⸴ˈˈ and is best known for his silkscreen paintings of Campbell's Soup Cans? - ttddAndy Warhol
Answer these questions about American artists. What artist was married to Lee Krasner⸴ was a proponent of abstract expressionism⸴ and is best known for his drip paintings such as Lavender Mist? - ttddJackson Pollack
Answer these questions about American artists. This artist depicted the aftermath of the death of a British general in his painting The Death of Major Pierson. This man depicted his half-brother Henry Pelham with the title animal in his Boy With a Squirrel. One painting by this artist depicted a Revolutionary War silversmith holding a teapot that he had created⸴ while another painting by this man depicts an animal attack in Havana Harbor. Identify this American artist who painted a portrait of Paul Revere⸴ as well as Watson and the Shark. - ttddJohn Singleton Copley
Answer these questions about European art. Pablo Picasso depicted a screaming horse and a light bulb in what painting that memorialized the bombing of the title Basque town during the Spanish Civil War? - ttddGuernica
Answer these questions about European art. The Infanta Margarita is depicted in a large room in the Alcazar Palace in what painting by Diego Velazquez? - ttddLas Meninas
Answer these questions about European art. This artist depicted a fellow artist with an outstretched leg in his painting The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used as a Table. He depicted Abraham Lincoln and his wife Gala in a painting that is an homage to Mark Rothko. This artist of Swans Reflecting Elephants painted a ˈˈDisintegrationˈˈ of his most famous work that includes the cliffs of Cadaques and several melting timepieces. Identify this Spanish surrealist who painted The Persistence of Memory. - ttddSalvador Dali
Identify these jazz musicians. What American pianist and bandleader is best known for the pieces ˈˈTake the A Trainˈˈ and ˈˈIt Don't Mean a Thing⸴ If It Ain't Got that Swingˈˈ? - ttddDuke Ellington
Identify these jazz musicians. What jazz musician known for his bent trumpet was a co-founder of bebop with Charlie Parker and wrote ˈˈSalt Peanutsˈˈ and ˈˈA Night in Tunisiaˈˈ? - ttddDizzy Gillespie
Identify these jazz musicians. This man's namesake quintet included saxophonist Wayne Shorter and pianist Herbie Hancock⸴ with whom he collaborated on his album Nefertiti. This musician was inspired by the music of Joaquin Rodrigo and Manuel de Falla for his album Sketches of Spain. This man collaborated with Gil Evans on the album Birth of the Cool but is best known for an album that includes the tracks ˈˈFlamenco Sketches⸴ˈˈ ˈˈFreddie Freeloader⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈSo What?ˈˈ Identify this jazz trumpeter who collaborated with John Coltrane on Kind of Blue. - ttddMiles Davis
Identify these twentieth century composers. What British composer wrote the pieces The Lark Ascending⸴ Sinfonia Antarctica⸴ and Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis? - ttddRalph Vaughan Williams
Identify these twentieth century composers. What Russian composer wrote the pieces Isle of the Dead and Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini? - ttddSergei Rachmaninoff
Identify these twentieth century composers. One composition by this composer debuted at a German church in 2001 and is not scheduled to end until 2640. This composer of As Slow as Possible was inspired by the I Ching to write a series of compositions including the Freeman Etudes and Music of Changes. This man placed rubber⸴ plastic⸴ and metal on the strings of his ˈˈprepared pianoˈˈ and used twelve radios for his composition Imaginary Landscape. Identify this composer who urged the audience to listen to ambient noise in his composition 4'33ˈˈ (four minutes thirty-three seconds). - ttddJohn Cage
Answer these questions about famous art museums. What art museum in Madrid⸴ Spain houses Diego Velazquez's paintings Las Meninas and The Surrender of Breda? - ttddPrado
Answer these questions about famous art museums. What art museum in Florence⸴ Italy houses Sandro Botticelli's The Birth of Venus and La Primavera? - ttddUffizi Gallery
Answer these questions about famous art museums. This museum was criticized for wasting taxpayer money when it purchased the minimalist work Equivalent VIII by Carl Andre⸴ which consisted of one hundred twenty-five stacked bricks. Andy Warhol's Marilyn Diptych is displayed at this museum that also houses a painting depicting a five year old girl playing with Chinese lanterns. That painting is John Singer Sargent's Carnation⸴ Lily⸴ Lily⸴ Rose. Identify this British museum that houses the national collection of British art. - ttddTate Museum
Identify these musicals and comic operas. Eliza Doolittle takes speech lessons from Henry Higgins in what Lerner and Loewe musical that is adapted from the play Pygmalion? - ttddMy Fair Lady
Identify these musicals and comic operas. Yum-Yum marries Nanki-Poo in what Gilbert and Sullivan operetta about the title emperor of Japan? - ttddThe Mikado
Identify these musicals and comic operas. The cast of this musical sings the song ˈˈThe Awefull Battle of The Pekes and the Polliclesˈˈ shortly after an elderly member of the group is introduced. Act Two of this musical introduces the characters Skimbleshanks and Mr. Mistoffelees shortly after Growltiger discusses how he lost an eye and an ear. This musical is based on a poetry collection by T.S. Eliot and opens with an invitation to the Jellicle Ball. Old Deuteronomy selects Grizabella to be reborn⸴ leading her to sing the song ˈˈMemoryˈˈ in what musical by Andrew Lloyd Webber? - ttddCats
Identify these art movements. Thomas Cole was the founder of what art movement whose members also included Frederic Edwin Church and Asher Durand? - ttddHudson River School
Identify these art movements. Georges Braque was a co-founder of what art movement whose members also included Juan Gris and the artist of Family of Saltimbanques? - ttddCubism
Identify these art movements. One work from this movement depicted The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli and was created by Carlo Carra⸴ while another piece from this movement depicted a dachshund and was entitled Dynamism of a Dog on a Leash. One piece from this movement depicts a walking man in bronze and is depicted on the back of the twenty cent Euro coin. The manifesto of this movement was written by Filippo Marinetti⸴ who described it as a celebration of speed⸴ machinery⸴ violence⸴ youth and industry. Identify this artistic movement whose members included Giacomo Balla and Umberto Boccioni. - ttddFuturism
Identify these Russian composers. What member of ˈˈThe Fiveˈˈ wrote the opera The Captain's Daughter⸴ in addition to Little Red Riding Hood and The Prisoner of the Caucasus? - ttddCesar Cui
Identify these Russian composers. Members of ˈˈThe Fiveˈˈ were influenced by what earlier Russian composer who wrote A Life for the Tsar and Ruslan and Ludmilla? - ttddMikhail Glinka
Identify these Russian composers. This composer's Symphony Number 2 in B Minor contains many passages that invoke his earlier opera Mlada. Several works by this composer were adapted into the Robert Wright and George Forrest musical entitled Kismet. Act Two of one opera by this composer ends with the Polovtsian Dances⸴ while another of his works contains an ˈˈEastern themeˈˈ meant to invoke a caravan. Identify this Russian composer and member of ˈˈThe Fiveˈˈ who wrote Prince Igor and In the Steppes of Central Asia. - ttddAlexander Borodin
Answer these questions pertaining to adaptations of Russian works of literature into music. Rimsky-Korsakov wrote what four-act opera based on an Alexander Pushkin poem that sees Militrisa and Prince Gvidon cast out to sea in a barrel? - ttddThe Tale of Tsar Sultan
Answer these questions pertaining to adaptations of Russian works of literature into music. Based on an Alexander Pushkin play⸴ Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov also wrote what opera that included portions of Don Giovanni and focuses on the rivalry between the two title musicians? - ttddMozart and Salieri
Answer these questions pertaining to adaptations of Russian works of literature into music. One opera by this composer based on Pushkin was entitled Pugachovshchina. This composer wrote an opera based on a work by Nikolai Gogol from Evenings on a Farm near Dikanka entitled The Fair at Sorochyntsi. An unfinished opera by this composer is based on a work by Gustave Flaubert and is titled for the daughter of Hamilcar Barca⸴ Salammbo. This composer's best-known work is based on a Pushkin play about the rival of a false Dmitry during the Time of Troubles. Identify this Russian composer of Boris Godunov. - ttddModest Mussorgsky
Identify these European composers. What German composer collaborated with Bertolt Brecht on The Threepenny Opera and composed the song ˈˈMack the Knifeˈˈ? - ttddKurt Weill
Identify these European composers. What German composer of the opera Oberon is best-known for his operas Invitation to the Dance and Der Freischutz? - ttddCarl Maria von Weber
Identify these European composers. A musical ode by this composer that was dedicated to Queen Mary II had its text written by Nahum Tate and was entitled ˈˈCome Ye Sons of Art.ˈˈ This composer's Te Deum and Jubilate Deo were written in honor of St. Cecelia's Day. Benjamin Britten's A Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra contains a theme from this composer's piece Abdelazer. This composer's best-known opera contains an aria entitled ˈˈWhen I am laid in earth.ˈˈ Identify this British composer of Dido and Aeneas. - ttddHenry Purcell
Identify these paintings by Dutch artists. The title Babylonian king is alarmed by writing on the wall that is drawn by a floating hand in what painting by Rembrandt? - ttddBelshazzar's Feast
Identify these paintings by Dutch artists. The title figure's legs can be seen flailing in the ocean in what painting by Pieter Brueghel the Elder that depicts a farmer plowing a field overlooking the sea? - ttddLandscape with the Fall of Icarus
Identify these paintings by Dutch artists. The figure on the right side of this painting wears a gold bracelet on her right wrist and stands near an image of Saint Margaret and a dragon. A cherry tree can be seen outside a window on the left side of this painting that also features the artist's name scrawled on the back wall. A dog lies at the foot of one figure in this painting whose green dress is bunched up in the front⸴ suggesting that she might be pregnant. A single lit candle appears in a chandelier in what best known painting by Jan Van Eyck? - ttddThe Arnolfini Wedding [or The Arnolfini Marriage]
Answer these questions about French art. What French artist painted works including The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope⸴ The Dream⸴ and The Sleeping Gypsy? - ttddHenri Rousseau
Answer these questions about French art. What French artist was nicknamed the ˈˈdean of Impressionist paintersˈˈ and painted Peasant Girl Drinking Her Coffee and a series of paintings about the Boulevard Montmartre in Paris? - ttddCamille Pissarro
Answer these questions about French art. A poem by Edwin Markham was inspired by this artist's painting The Man with the Hoe. A man with a red shirt and blue pants walks across a field in this artist's painting The Sower. This artist depicted two peasants saying a prayer over a basket of potatoes in a painting that inspired a Salvador Dali work⸴ The Angelus. His best-known painting depicts three women who are leaning over to collect stray pieces of grain. Identify this founder of the Barbizon school who painted The Gleaners. - ttddJean-Francois Millet
Identify these composers given information about their inspirations. What composer was inspired by a trip to the U.S. to write his American String Quartet and was inspired by a Johannes Brahms work to write his Slavonic Dances? - ttddAntonin Dvorak
Identify these composers given information about their inspirations. What composer was inspired by Czech history to write The Brandenburgers in Bohemia and wrote about a peasant named Krusina in The Bartered Bride? - ttddBedrich Smetana
Identify these composers given information about their inspirations. This composer was inspired by his love for Kamila Stosslova to write The Diary of One Who Disappeared and included sections entitled ˈˈSanctusˈˈ and ˈˈCredoˈˈ in his Glagolitic Mass. One opera by this composer ends with Kabanica thanking the audience after the title character's death in Kat'a Kabanova⸴ and another opera by this man features characters named Zlatohrbitek and Bystrouska. A Nikolai Gogol work inspired a rhapsody by what Czech composer of The Cunning Little Vixen and Taras Bulba? - ttddLeos Janacek
Answer these questions about Expressionist artists. What Russian-born expressionist artist and founder of the Blue Rider movement wrote Concerning the Spiritual in Art and created numerous Compositions and Improvisations? - ttddWassily Kandinsky
Answer these questions about Expressionist artists. What Flemish expressionist artist created The Vile Vivisectors and Christ's Entry into Brussels? - ttddJames Ensor
Answer these questions about Expressionist artists. Art critic Walter Benjamin described one work by this artist as an ˈˈangel of history.ˈˈ Another work by this artist of Angelus Novus was done in the pointillist style and is entitled Ad Parnassum. This artist's Pedagogical Sketchbook was published while he was working as a professor at the Bauhaus. One work by this artist was sold by the Nazi Party after being declared ˈˈdegenerate artˈˈ by Adolf Hitler and depicts several birds sitting on a wire that is connected to a hand crank. Identify this Swiss artist of Twittering Machine. - ttddPaul Klee [clay]
Identify these European artists. What mannerist painter of The Miracle of the Slave created a famous diagonal version of The Last Supper? - ttddTintoretto
Identify these European artists. What leader of the Vienna Secession movement used gold leaf for his painting The Kiss? - ttddGustav Klimt
Identify these European artists. In one painting by this artist⸴ a cannon sits inside a large room whose walls are adorned by a forest⸴ a sky⸴ and the torso of a woman. This artist of On the Threshold of Liberty depicted two armed men waiting outside a door to capture a man who listens to a gramophone in his painting The Menaced Assassin. Bowler hats were prominently featured in this artist's Golconda⸴ as well as in another painting by this artist that depicts a man whose face is obscured by a green apple entitled The Son of Man. Identify this Belgian surrealist who stated ˈˈthis is not a pipeˈˈ in his painting The Treachery of Images. - ttddRene Magritte
Identify these buildings completed by famous architects. One of the first skyscrapers in the world⸴ what St. Louis building designed by Dankmar Adler and Louis Sullivan is constructed of red brick and was one of the first buildings in the world with a steel frame? - ttddWainwright Building
Identify these buildings completed by famous architects. A monorail travels through what Frank Gehry designed building in Seattle that was founded by Microsoft founder Paul Allen and is often described as looking like a smashed electric guitar? - ttddExperience Music Project [prompt on partial answer; accept Museum of Pop Culture or MoPOP]
Identify these buildings completed by famous architects. The architect of one building with this name waged a lengthy battle with Harry Truman over power lines that obstructed his view. That building with this name incorporated designs that resembled rattlesnakes⸴ Gila monsters⸴ and chameleons. Another building of this name was destroyed by fire after Julian Carlton murdered Mamah Borthwick and six others in 1914⸴ only to be rebuilt and destroyed by fire again in 1925. Identify this name shared by two properties⸴ one in Arizona and one in Wisconsin⸴ that both served as studios for Frank Lloyd Wright. - ttddTaliesin
Answer these questions about Renaissance art. What equestrian sculpture by Donatello is located in Padua and depicts Erasmo de Narni⸴ an Italian condottiero who had ruled Venice? - ttddGattamelata
Answer these questions about Renaissance art. What painting by Raphael depicts a serene Jesus on the cross⸴ with two angels catching his blood in chalices nearby? Mary⸴ John the Evangelist⸴ St. Jerome⸴ and Mary Magdalene appear at Jesus's feet in this painting. - ttddThe Mond Crucifixion
Answer these questions about Renaissance art. This artist depicted Flight to Egypt and Christ Among the Doctors in his Seven Sorrows Polyptych. In another work by this artist⸴ an elderly Mary looks on as Nicodemus holds the title figure in his Lamentation of Christ. This artist depicted John⸴ Peter⸴ Mark⸴ and Paul in his painting of The Four Apostles and showed the title figure with his finger on a skull in his painting St. Jerome in his Study. In another work⸴ this man depicted Plague⸴ Death⸴ War⸴ and Famine in The Four Horseman of the Apocalypse. Identify this artist who included an hourglass and a magic square in his woodcut⸴ Melancholia I. - ttddAlbrecht Durer
Answer these questions about German music. This German composer is perhaps best known for a set of compositions he dedicated to Christian Ludwig. Name this composer of The Goldberg Variations and The Brandenburg Concertos. - ttddJohann Sebastian Bach
Answer these questions about German music. This other German Baroque composer of Water Music was court composer to George II⸴ but he is better known for writing the oratorio Messiah. - ttddGeorge Frideric Handel
Answer these questions about German music. This work contains the lyrics ˈˈJoy⸴ thou purest spark divineˈˈ and ˈˈDaughter from Elysium.ˈˈ The fourth movement of this work is often called ˈˈa symphony within a symphony.ˈˈ This piece that quotes Friedrich Schiller was the first symphony to use a chorus. Name this symphony containing a setting of ˈˈOde to Joy⸴ˈˈ written by Ludwig van Beethoven. - ttddBeethoven's Ninth Symphony [accept Choral Symphony; accept Ninth Symphony after Beethoven]
Identify these famous buildings. This iconic Paris skyscraper was built by its namesake for the 1889 Universal Exposition. It houses the Le Jules Verne restaurant on its top floor⸴ and it still serves as a radio tower. - ttddEiffel Tower
Identify these famous buildings. This iconic New York City skyscraper was the tallest building in the world until it was surpassed by the World Trade Center in 1970. Red⸴ white⸴ and blue lights were installed on this building to celebrate America's bicentennial. - ttddEmpire State Building
Identify these famous buildings. This architect used the Mayan Revival Style for his Hollyhock House. This architect complained that power lines blocked his view of the mountains when constructing one of his studios. That studio shared its name with one in Wisconsin⸴ known as Taliesin. This architect designed a residence for the Kauffman family situated on Mill Run. Name this American architect who built Fallingwater. - ttddFrank Lloyd Wright
Answer these questions about Impressionist painters. This artist painted Gustave Caillebotte and Aline Charigot playing with her dog in his work Luncheon of the Boating Party. - ttddPierre-Auguste Renoir
Answer these questions about Impressionist painters. This artist painted Ellen Andre looking sullenly at a glass of the title substance in L'Absinthe. He is probably more famous for painting and sculpting ballet dancers. - ttddEdgar Degas
Answer these questions about Impressionist painters. Victorine Meurent modeled as the central figure in two of this artist's works. A plate of oranges can be seen in the foreground of a work painted by this artist⸴ in which a waiter stares at the viewer⸴ Bar at the Folies-Bergere. In his most famous work⸴ this artist showed two men sitting next to a nude woman while enjoying a picnic. Name this painter of the scandalous Luncheon on the Grass. - ttddEdouard Manet
Answer these questions about American painters. This abstract expressionist received the nickname ˈˈJack the Dripperˈˈ for dripping paint all over his canvases. He painted such works as Lavender Mist and Full Fathom Five. - ttddJackson Pollock
Answer these questions about American painters. This wife of Alfred Stieglitz painted landscapes with cow skulls while she lived in New Mexico. Her famous paintings include Hollyhock with Ram's Head. - ttddGeorgia O'Keeffe
Answer these questions about American painters. The Cedar Rapids Gazette criticized this painting for depicting ˈˈgrim-faced⸴ Puritanical Bible thumpers.ˈˈ A cactus lies next to a green window in the background of this painting. A figure modeled on the artist's dentist holds a pitchfork in this painting. Name this Grant Wood painting which depicts a couple standing in front of their farmhouse. - ttddAmerican Gothic
Answer the following questions about opera This Mozart opera ends with the title character being dragged to hell by a statue after having killed Don Pedro and contains the ˈˈChampagneˈˈ and ˈˈCatalogueˈˈ arias. - ttddDon Giovanni
Answer the following questions about opera This Rossini opera recounts the title Swiss hero standing up to the tyrannical Gessler and shooting an apple off his son's head. - ttddWilliam Tell
Answer the following questions about opera The musical ˈˈRentˈˈ is heavily based on this opera. After feeling another character's cold hands⸴ the main character of this opera sings the aria ˈˈChe gelida manina.ˈˈ The main character of this opera lives with the painter Marcello⸴ the singer Musetta⸴ the philosopher Colline⸴ and the musician Schaunard. Name this Puccini opera about the poor Parisian Rodolfo and his love for the tuberculosis stricken Mimi. - ttddLa Boheme
Answer these questions about famous sculptures. This Auguste Rodin sculpture shows a man with his head on his fist in a contemplative pose. It was originally a detail on his ˈˈThe Gates of Hell.ˈˈ - ttddThe Thinker
Answer these questions about famous sculptures. This Michelangelo sculpture depicting the title biblical hero after having slayed a large Philistine was commissioned by the Medici family for the city of Florence. - ttddDavid
Answer these questions about famous sculptures. Salvador Dali included twenty-eight multi-colored depictions of this statue in his painting The Hallucinogenic Toreador. This statue may have once held a golden apple in its left hand and is often misattributed to Praxiteles. Name this semi-nude Ancient Greek sculpture by Alexandros of Antioch that is notably missing its arms. - ttddVenus de Milo
Answer the following questions about Dutch painting. This Dutch artist moved to Arles where he painted ˈˈThe Night Cafe.ˈˈ - ttddVincent Van Gogh
Answer the following questions about Dutch painting. This other Dutch artist painted his hometown of Delft and is most famous for his ˈˈGirl with a Pearl Earring.ˈˈ - ttddJohannes Vermeer
Answer the following questions about Dutch painting. The first panel of this work contains a unicorn⸴ a goat-headed bird⸴ and a half-duck⸴ half-fish creature reading a book. The next section of this work contains several ponds filled with large fruit. The final panel of this altarpiece depicts a blue bird-man eating people⸴ half a ceramic torso⸴ and several scenes of torture. Name this Hieronymus Bosch triptych that depicts the Garden of Eden⸴ the title location⸴ and finally⸴ Hell. - ttddThe Garden of Earthly Delights
Answer these questions concerning instruments. Dizzy Gillespie famously played a bent version of this three-valved brass instrument which plays the main theme of ˈˈFanfare for the Common Man.ˈˈ - ttddTrumpet
Answer these questions concerning instruments. Andres Segovia played this six-stringed string instrument which plays the solo of ˈˈStairway to Heaven.ˈˈ - ttddGuitar
Answer these questions concerning instruments. One of the three compositions Antonin Dvorak based on his visit to the United States was a concerto for this instrument. Jacqueline du Pre and Pablo Casals played this instrument⸴ and J.S. Bach wrote six solo suites for this instrument. Yo-Yo Ma notably played this second largest of the violin series of instruments⸴ between the viola and the double-bass. Identify this stringed instrument. - ttddCello
Answer the following questions about jazz. This jazz musician is most famous for his song ˈˈSo Whatˈˈ and his album Kind of Blue. - ttddMiles Davis
Answer the following questions about jazz. This musician played the piano and is most famous for his songs ˈˈTake the A-Trainˈˈ and ˈˈIt Don't Mean a Thing if it Ain't Got That Swing.ˈˈ - ttddDuke Ellington
Answer the following questions about jazz. This man pioneered scat singing with his band the ˈˈHot Five⸴ˈˈ with whom he produced the best known versions of ˈˈWest End Bluesˈˈ and ˈˈHeebie Jeebies.ˈˈ In the opening of this man's most notable song⸴ he sings the lines ˈˈI see trees of green⸴ red roses too.ˈˈ Name this jazz trumpeter whose notable gravelly voice is exemplified in his song ˈˈWhat a Wonderful World.ˈˈ - ttddLouis Armstrong
Answer the following questions concerning musicals. This musical that features the songs ˈˈDefying Gravityˈˈ and ˈˈFor Goodˈˈ sung by Elphaba and Glinda⸴ is a prequel to ˈˈThe Wizard of Oz.ˈˈ - ttddWicked
Answer the following questions concerning musicals. In this musical⸴ featuring the songs ˈˈSummer Nightsˈˈ and ˈˈYou're the One That I Want⸴ˈˈ the T-Bird Danny Zuko falls in love with the Pink Lady Sandy Olsson. - ttddGrease
Answer the following questions concerning musicals. In this musical⸴ the love interest of the title character gets engaged to Raoul and together they sing the song ˈˈAll I Ask of You.ˈˈ This musical ends when Meg pulls a cloak off of a chair revealing half of a white mask. Name this Andrew Lloyd Webber musical about the title disfigured musical genius that lives below the Opera Populaire and his love for the soprano Christine Daaé. - ttddThe Phantom of the Opera
Answer the following questions about Italian music. This Italian operettist wrote the operas La Traviata⸴ Il Trovatore⸴ and Otello. - ttddGiuseppe Verdi
Answer the following questions about Italian music. Alessandro Scarlatti wrote five hundred fifty sonatas for this instrument⸴ a precursor to the piano⸴ in which the strings are plucked. - ttddHarpsichord
Answer the following questions about Italian music. This set of violin concerti was part of a set of music termed The Contest between Harmony and Invention and is unusually accompanied by four sonnets. In the second movement of the first of these works⸴ the viola makes a sound to imitate a barking dog⸴ and the second movement of the second of these depicts a violent thunderstorm. Name this set of four violin concerti by Antonio Vivaldi that includes ˈˈSpring⸴ˈˈ ˈˈSummer⸴ˈˈ ˈˈAutumn⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈWinter.ˈˈ - ttddThe Four Seasons
Answer the following questions about French composers. This composer wrote a piece containing the sections ˈˈDream of a Witches Sabbathˈˈ and ˈˈMarch to the Scaffold⸴ˈˈ Symphonie Fantastique. - ttddHector Berlioz
Answer the following questions about French composers. This man's Basque heritage inspired his most famous piece that begins with a famous snare drum ostinato⸴ Bolero. - ttddMaurice Ravel
Answer the following questions about French composers. In the fifth section of this piece⸴ Berlioz's The Dance of the Sylphs is imitated. One section of this piece is played by two pianos and a cello to depict the title figure gliding over the water. In another section⸴ the can-can is played very slowly by the strings. Name this most famous piece of Camille Saint-Saens that includes sections like ˈˈThe Elephant⸴ˈˈ ˈˈThe Swan⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈTortoises.ˈˈ - ttddThe Carnival of the Animals
Answer the following questions about compositions partially named after seasons. Martha Graham was the dedicatee of what Aaron Copland ballet that has a seventh movement based on variations of the Shaker hymn⸴ ˈˈSimple Giftsˈˈ? - ttddAppalachian Spring
Answer the following questions about compositions partially named after seasons. Felix Mendelssohn's famous ˈˈWedding Marchˈˈ is included in his incidental music to what Shakespearean comedy? - ttddIncidental Music to A Midsummer Night's Dream
Answer the following questions about compositions partially named after seasons. This composer created a choral rendition of the William Blake poem ˈˈSound the Flute!ˈˈ in his symphony named for spring. This teacher of Peter Pears collaborated with W. H. Auden on a choral piece named for St. Cecilia. This composer also transformed famous novels⸴ such as Turn of the Screw and Billy Budd into operas⸴ and he used poems by Wilfred Owen in his War Requiem. This composer's most famous composition was intended to teach children different musical instruments. What English composer is best known for The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra? - ttddBenjamin Britten
Answer the following questions about depictions of dogs in art. A dwarf kicks a mastiff in the bottom right corner of what Diego Velazquez painting that depicts the Infanta Margarita? - ttddLas Meninas [accept ˈˈThe Maids of Honorˈˈ or ˈˈThe Ladies-in-Waitingˈˈ)
Answer the following questions about depictions of dogs in art. A small brown dog stands next to a pair of wooden clogs at the bottom of what Jan Van Eyck painting that shows the title Italian merchant and his wife? - ttddThe Arnolfini Wedding [accept ˈˈThe Arnolfini Portraitˈˈ or ˈˈThe Arnolfini Wedding Portraitˈˈ]
Answer the following questions about depictions of dogs in art. This artist depicted his dog Pitter staring at a boy in a red flannel jacket in the painting Pride of Parenthood. Many of this artist's early works were published in the magazine Boys' Life⸴ and one painting by this artist was kept at the White House during a 2011 visit between its subject and Barack Obama. That aforementioned painting includes a racial slur on the wall behind its central figure⸴ Ruby Bridges. This artist of The Problem We All Live With also depicted a family eating a Thanksgiving meal in the painting⸴ Freedom from Want. Identify this American artist of The Four Freedom Series whose works were often published in the Saturday Evening Post. - ttddNorman Rockwell
Identify the following operas. Giacomo Rossini included the aria⸴ ˈˈLargo al factotum⸴ˈˈ in what opera that sees Figaro help Count Almaviva marry Rosina? - ttddThe Barber of Seville [accept The Useless Precaution]
Identify the following operas. Rossini included the aria⸴ ˈˈSois Immobile⸴ˈˈ in what opera that sees the title character shoot an apple off his son's head? - ttddWilliam Tell
Identify the following operas. In this opera⸴ one character seduces Maddalena⸴ and Marullo announces that another character has a secret mistress. A third character in this opera sings about her love for a poor student named Gualtier Malde⸴ and as a result of Count Monterone's actions in act one of this opera⸴ it was originally called ˈˈThe Curse.ˈˈ ˈˈQuesta O Quellaˈˈ is sung at the beginning of this opera by the same character who sings⸴ ˈˈLa Donna e Mobile.ˈˈ This opera ends with the title character realizing he accidentally paid twenty scudi for the murder of his daughter⸴ Gilda⸴ instead of the Duke. A hunchback jester names what Giuseppe Verdi opera? - ttddRigoletto
Identify the following art movements. Andy Warhol was the most prominent member of what art movement exemplified by his Campbellˈs Soup Cans? - ttddPop Art
Identify the following art movements. What American art movement⸴ named for a natural New York landscape feature⸴ was founded by Thomas Cole? - ttddHudson River School
Identify the following art movements. One painting from this art movement shows pink ribbon being wrapped around the foot of the title figure. Another painting from this art movement shows cherubs flying around a golden boat in the background. Francis Boucher's Toilet of Venus and Antoine Watteau's The Embarkation for Cythera belonged to this art movement⸴ but the most famous painting from this art movement shows two cupid statues and a man looking up the central figure's dress as she uses the title object. Jean-Honore Fragonard's The Swing belonged to what French art movement? - ttddRococo
Identify these works by European composers. Cecil Spring Rice's poem ˈˈI Vow to Thee My Countryˈˈ was set to music in what composition that includes a movement subtitled ˈˈThe Bringer of Jollityˈˈ? - ttddThe Planets
Identify these works by European composers. What ballet that is titled for a puppet opens at Shrovetide Fair and contains a namesake chord formed by two clarinets playing a C sharp and an F sharp simultaneously? - ttddPetrushka
Identify these works by European composers. Johan Halvorsen posthumously published the complete score of this composition in 1908. One movement of this composition takes place in a Moroccan desert where one character is holding a branch to defend himself against apes. Although this piece is not based on the story of Oedipus⸴ one character in this composition is said to have solved the riddle of the Sphinx while another movement of this piece features trolls and goblins. Anitra's Dance⸴ Morning Mood⸴ and In the Hall of the Mountain King are movements in what incidental music by Edvard Grieg? - ttddPeer Gynt
Identify the following iconic works of architecture. Frank Lloyd Wright designed what Pennsylvania house for the Kaufmann family? - ttddFallingwater
Identify the following iconic works of architecture. I. M. Pei is best known for what six hundred sixty-six panel structure outside of the Louvre? - ttddGlass Pyramid [prompt on partial answer]
Identify the following iconic works of architecture. Partially on top of this building's roof is a metal half-dome structure nicknamed ˈˈMedusa⸴ˈˈ and originally⸴ Jean Nouvel was asked to co-design this structure but he declined. The architect of this structure collaborated with Vlado Milunic on the design⸴ and this Deconstructivist building was designed in a way that symbolized the country's transition from a communist society to a democracy. The design of this building was also said to depict Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers participating in the title action. Ninety-nine concrete panels support the twisting facade of what Prague building by Frank Gehry? - ttddDancing House [prompt on ˈˈFred and Gingerˈˈ until ˈˈFredˈˈ is read]
Identify the following collections of compositions. Beethoven created nine of what type of musical works? The ninth is named Choral and the fifth has the famous ˈˈfate knocking at the doorˈˈ motif. - ttddBeethoven's Symphonies [accept word variations]
Identify the following collections of compositions. Beethoven also created thirty-two of what other type of musical works? The most famous one⸴ the fourteenth⸴ was inspired by Lake Lucerne and nicknamed Moonlight. - ttddBeethoven's Piano Sonatas [prompt on ˈˈsonatasˈˈ]
Identify the following collections of compositions. COMPOSER AND TYPE OF COMPOSITION REQUIRED. It's not a work by Claude Debussy⸴ but the most recent composition of this type focuses on ˈˈDame Shirleyˈˈ during the California Gold Rush⸴ Girls of the Golden West. Another composition of this type ends with Kumudha's transformation from the title object back to her human form. The hijacking of the ship⸴ Achilles Lauro⸴ is the basis of a third composition of this type⸴ and a fourth composition of this type includes the ˈChairman Dancesˈˈ and a ˈˈFoxtrot with Mao.ˈˈ A Flowering Tree⸴ The Death of Klinghoffer⸴ and Nixon in China are all what type of composition by an American Minimalist? - ttddJohn Adams' Operas [prompt on partial answer]
Answer these questions about French artists. The title figure holds a letter from Charlotte Corday in what painting by Jacques-Louis David that depicts a French revolutionary leader who is dead in his bathtub? - ttddThe Death of Marat
Answer these questions about French artists. A Greek philosopher holds a finger in the air as he is about to drink a cup of hemlock in what other painting by Jacques-Louis David? - ttddThe Death of Socrates
Answer these questions about French artists. This artist earned the nickname Le Douanier for the years he spent working as a customs inspector. A panther watches from a tree on the right side of this artist's painting The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope⸴ while a man is fishing in front of a white house that sits above a waterfall in this artist's painting The Mill. This man's painting The Snake Charmer is similar to his best known work⸴ which depicts a lion standing over the title figure. Identify this French artist of The Sleeping Gypsy. - ttddHenri Rousseau
Identify the following artists who depicted horses. What American photographer showed two horses pulling a buggy in Winter - Fifth Avenue? He is better known as the founder of the gallery 291. - ttddAlfred Stieglitz
Identify the following artists who depicted horses. What English photographer showed a galloping horse on Plate 626 of his Animal Locomotion? - ttddEadweard Muybridge
Identify the following artists who depicted horses. This man used black crayon for his work Two-horse Hitch. In an oil painting by this man⸴ a seated man looks at the two title figures as they wade through water⸴ Boy with Horse. A yellow-clad figure stands on one leg while riding a white horse in another painting by this man⸴ though he is better known for a painting that shows several men lounging around the title river. This artist of The Circus and Bathers at Asnieres also created a work in which a man smokes a pipe and a woman holds a monkey on a leash. Identify this Pointillist artist of A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte. - ttddGeorges Seurat
Identify the following religious pieces of music. What J. S. Bach work features a ˈˈCrucifixusˈˈ in its second section ˈˈSymbolum Nicenumˈˈ? - ttddMass in B Minor [prompt on partial answer]
Identify the following religious pieces of music. Franz Sussmayr completed all but eight measures of the ˈˈLacrimosaˈˈ section of what Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart work? - ttddRequiem Mass in D Minor [prompt on ˈˈMass in D Minorˈˈ or partial answer]
Identify the following religious pieces of music. This melody can be heard in the fourth act of Charles Gounodˈs opera⸴ Faust⸴ and this melody is also included in Modest Mussorgsky's ˈˈTrepakˈˈ from his Songs and Dances of Death. A Francesco Traini painting was one inspiration for a Franz Liszt work⸴ subtitled a ˈˈParaphrase on [this melody]⸴ˈˈ Totentanz. Historians are unsure whether this hymn should be attributed to Latino Malabranca Orsini or Thomas of Celano. Identify this hymn often used in Requiems whose Latin name translates to ˈˈDay of Wrath.ˈˈ - ttddDies Irae [accept ˈˈDay of Wrathˈˈ until mentioned]
Identify the following artists who had new works of art discovered within the past decade. This artist's painting⸴ Salvator Mundi or Savior of the World⸴ was discovered five years ago; however⸴ it was most recently sold at auction for four hundred million dollars. Identify this Renaissance artist. - ttddLeonardo Da Vinci
Identify the following artists who had new works of art discovered within the past decade. This artist's Allegory of Friendship and Justice was found in the Vatican's Hall of Constance in December 2017. He is better known for the Mond Crucifixion. - ttddRaphael
Identify the following artists who had new works of art discovered within the past decade. In a newly discovered painting of the Infant Christ by this artist⸴ surrounding details were removed prior to it being sold in auction in March 2017 for over one hundred thousand Euros. Though not attributed to this artist⸴ it is believed that a Warwick Castle painting belongs to this artist who also depicted its subject in his Iconography engravings; that man was Jacob Jordaens. This artist created three portraits from different angles of an English king and also showed that king's wife⸴ Henrietta Maria⸴ ˈˈat the huntˈˈ in another portrait. Identify this Flemish artist who created many depictions of Charles I. - ttddSir Anthony Van Dyck
Identify the following musical instruments. Though not commonly used as an instrument⸴ George Gershwin used four of what motor-vehicle objects in his orchestral piece⸴ An American in Paris? - ttddTaxi Horns or Car Horns [prompt on just ˈˈHorns⸴ˈˈ accept equivalent answers]
Identify the following musical instruments. Also not commonly used as instrument⸴ John Cage used twelve of what kind of objects tuned to different stations in his Imaginary Landscape No. 4? - ttddRadios
Identify the following musical instruments. A sonata for piano and this musical instrument has a final ˈˈDeplorationˈˈ movement in the last work of Francis Poulenc⸴ and Benjamin Britten's Six Metamorphoses after Ovid was written for this instrument. This instrument represents a quail in Beethoven's Pastoral Symphony. One type of this instrument has a solo in J. S. Bach's Magnificat⸴ that mezzo-soprano version of this instrument is called the ˈˈd'amoreˈˈ type. This instrument also represents the duck in Peter and the Wolf. Identify this double reed woodwind⸴ which the orchestra tunes to. - ttddOboe
Identify the following cities based on their architecture. Though now the project is suspended⸴ Frank Gehry was supposed to design the latest installment of the Guggenheim Museum in what Middle Eastern city? - ttddAbu Dhabi
Identify the following cities based on their architecture. I. M. Pei created the Museum of Islamic Art near a dhow [dou] harbor in what Middle Eastern city? - ttddDoha
Identify the following cities based on their architecture. Along with Brookline⸴ this city is partially home to Frederick Law Olmstedˈs Emerald Necklace of interconnected parks⸴ one of which is the oldest public park in the United States. A building in this city includes the Skywalk Observatory and the Top of the Hub restaurant. Another building in this city was actually built by Henry Cobb while he was working for I. M. Pei's company. This city home to the Prudential Building and the John Hancock Tower is also the site of Faneuil Hall. Identify the city home to Pei's John F. Kennedy Presidential Library⸴ located in Massachusetts. - ttddBoston
Answer these questions about American composers. What man composed the music to the opera Candide and wrote his Kaddish Symphony in honor of John F. Kennedy? - ttddLeonard Bernstein
Answer these questions about American composers. What man wrote the lyrics to Bernstein's West Side Story and also wrote the music and lyrics to Sweeney Todd and Into the Woods? - ttddStephen Sondheim
Answer these questions about American composers. This composer partnered with Doris Lessing for the opera The Making of the Representative for Planet 8. Another opera by this composer was based on the life of Walt Disney and was entitled The Perfect American. He collaborated with beat poet Allen Ginsberg for the opera Hydrogen Jukebox and wrote the Civil War era opera Appomattox. This composer is perhaps best known for a trio of operas that includes one based on the life of Mahatma Gandhi and another about an Egyptian pharaoh. Identify this American composer whose ˈˈPortrait Trilogyˈˈ includes Satyagraha⸴ Akhnaten⸴ and Einstein on the Beach. - ttddPhilip Glass
Identify the following American artists. What member of the Pop Art movement is known for his depictions of bullseyes and American flags? - ttddJasper Johns
Identify the following American artists. What American sculptor is best known for the mobile Lobster Trap and Fish Tail? - ttddAlexander Calder
Identify the following American artists. This man included grapes and a pinecone underneath a scythe with a red ribbon attached to it⸴ as well as the word ˈˈDOVEˈˈ in bold white letters⸴ in his Portrait of Arthur Dove. A puff of smoke rises out of a black cylinder attached to two white grain elevators in one painting set in Lancaster⸴ Pennsylvania. This man's most famous work shows the word ˈˈBillˈˈ cut in half at the top left⸴ as well as the letters ˈˈW-C-Wˈˈ at the bottom. This artist may have included those letters because that work is named after a line from a William Carlos Williams poem. Identify this Precisionist of I Saw the Figure 5 in Gold. - ttddCharles Demuth
Identify the following operas. What Ruggero Leoncavallo opera ends with Silvio attacked by Canio while the latter is dressed up like the title clown? - ttddI⸴ Pagliacci
Identify the following operas. What Pietro Mascagni opera⸴ often paired with I⸴ Pagliacci⸴ sees Lola and Santuzza begin affairs with Lucia's husband⸴ Turridu? - ttddCavalleria Rusticana
Identify the following operas. During this opera's first act⸴ the drunk⸴ Bob Boles⸴ begins to hit on two nieces at a bar⸴ and Ned Keene is an apothecary in this opera. This opera's protagonist sings the aria⸴ ˈˈThe Great Bear and the Pleiades...ˈˈ in its second act⸴ and that protagonist hits his girlfriend while the rest of the town is at church. This opera begins with a prologue set during a court case where the protagonist is acquitted of murder. Ellen Orford is the only character who is willing to retrieve the main character's new apprentice⸴ John⸴ and this opera includes the ˈˈFour Seas Interludes.ˈˈ The protagonist⸴ a fisherman⸴ names what Benjamin Britten opera? - ttddPeter Grimes
Answer the following about art museums. St. Petersburg⸴ Florida⸴ is the location of an art museum that is home to many works by what artist? This artist's work⸴ The Hallucinogenic Toreador⸴ is housed in the aforementioned museum. - ttddSalvador Dali
Answer the following about art museums. A museum dedicated to what artist is located in Philadelphia⸴ Pennsylvania? This museum includes a cast of this artist's sculpture The Age of Bronze. - ttddAuguste Rodin
Answer the following about art museums. One art museum in this non-capital city was designed by the architecture studio Atelier LWD and is named for a former Minister of Culture⸴ André Malraux. It's not located in the US⸴ but that museum in this city is nicknamed the ˈˈMuMa.ˈˈ A full moon can be seen in the center of the sky in a painting by Eugene Boudin named for this city entitled Dusk over the port of [this city]. Another painting set in this city was said to be less ˈˈfinishedˈˈ than ˈˈWallpaper in its embryonic state...ˈˈ by Louis Leroy⸴ and that painting shows two boats during the title time of day. The harbor of what city was depicted in Claude Monet's painting⸴ Impression⸴ Sunrise? - ttddLe Havre [ˈˈHahvˈˈ] (Do NOT prompt on partial answer)
Identify the following compositions appearing on the London Philharmonic Orchestra's 50 Greatest Pieces of Classical Music album⸴ published in 2009. What section of Edvard Grieg's Peer Gynt suite steadily increases in tempo as the title character⸴ a large troll⸴ pursues Peer Gynt? - ttddˈˈIn the Hall of the Mountain Kingˈˈ [Do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Identify the following compositions appearing on the London Philharmonic Orchestra's 50 Greatest Pieces of Classical Music album⸴ published in 2009. What other section of Edvard Grieg's Peer Gynt suite is the 1st recording on the album and represents the sun rising during the title time of day? - ttddˈˈMorning Moodˈˈ [Do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Identify the following compositions appearing on the London Philharmonic Orchestra's 50 Greatest Pieces of Classical Music album⸴ published in 2009. This composition premiered at Zofin Palace in 1882. This work's third section is based on a folk legend about the knight Ctirad [skeer-rah] being deceived by the title maiden⸴ ˈˈSarka.ˈˈ This composition's first section begins by mimicking the music of King Lumir's harp and is called ˈˈVysehradˈˈ [vees-rahd] or ˈˈThe High Castle.ˈˈ This composition's most famous section used a Giuseppe Cenci- attributed melody⸴ La Mantovana to represent a river; that section is called ˈˈVltavaˈˈ [vil-tah-vah] or the ˈˈMoldauˈˈ [mole-dow]. Identify this set of six symphonic poems by Bedrich Smetana. - ttddMa Vlast or My Fatherland
Identify the following artists based on depictions of their romantic partners. What artist depicted a small portrait of her husband on her forehead in the paintings⸴ Diego and I and Self-Portrait as Tehuana [tay-wahn-ah]? - ttddFrida Kahlo
Identify the following artists based on depictions of their romantic partners. What artist depicted his wife painting in a car in Jo in Wyoming? She was also depicted in a red dress sitting at a diner in this artist's most famous work. - ttddEdward Hopper [Second description is of Nighthawks]
Identify the following artists based on depictions of their romantic partners. This artist depicted his first wife holding a folding fan while sitting on a piece of furniture with a floral design in Olga in an Armchair. This artist created over 400 portraits of his second wife⸴ Jacqueline Roque. This artist depicted another of his long-term partners crying in The Weeping Woman as well as seated in a brown chair while wearing a green hat decorated with flowers in Dora Maar au Chat. Fernande Olivier⸴ one of this artist's other partners⸴ was used as a model for a painting that shows two prostitutes wearing African masks. What artist created Les Demoiselle d'Avignon? - ttddPablo Picasso
Identify the following operas. What Ruggero Leoncavallo opera which is titled for clowns ends with Canio killing Silvio? - ttddI⸴ Pagliacci
Identify the following operas. What Pietro Mascagni opera is often paired with I⸴ Pagliacci and revolves around Turiddu seducing Santuzza? This opera's title translates as ˈˈrustic chivalry.ˈˈ - ttddCavalleria Rusticana
Identify the following operas. In this opera⸴ one character disguises herself as a notary while two men wear fake mustaches and disguise themselves as Albanians in the sextet⸴ ˈˈAlla bella Despinetta.ˈˈ In this opera⸴ one character gives away a medallion to her love. The libretto for this opera was written by Lorenzo Da Ponte. In this opera⸴ 100 sequins are wagered on whether the fiances of the central characters⸴ Ferrando and Guglielmo⸴ will be faithful. Identify this Mozart opera about Dorabella and Fiordiligi whose title is Italian for ˈˈAll Women Do It.ˈˈ - ttddCosi fan tutte [Accept ˈˈAll Women Do It ˈˈ (until mentioned) or ˈˈThe School for Loversˈˈ]
Identify the following art movements. What Renaissance art movement featured paintings with exaggerated features and proportions⸴ such as in Parmigianinoˈs Madonna of the Long Neck? - ttddMannerism [prompt on Late Renaissance]
Identify the following art movements. What art movement that began in France in the mid-1800s opposed Romanticism and attempted to show subjects as they truly are? Naturalism stemmed from this art movement. - ttddRealism
Identify the following art movements. One work from this movement showed cut-out numbers and the title letters scattered throughout a ˈˈphotomontage.ˈˈ That work from this art movement is ABCD by Raoul Hausmann. 3D collages and assemblages were pioneered during this art movement whose manifesto was written by Tristan Tzara. One member of this art movement was photographed by Man Ray while in his drag alter ego⸴ Rrose Selavy. With a French name meaning ˈˈhobby horse⸴ˈˈ identify this art movement led by Marcel Duchamp. - ttddDadaism
Identify the following ballets. Sergei Prokofiev included the ˈˈDance of the Knightsˈˈ in what ballet that was inspired by a William Shakespeare play? - ttddRomeo and Juliet
Identify the following ballets. An evil fairy named Carabosse and Princess Aurora appear in what other ballet by Pyotr Tchaikovsky that was based on a Charles Perrault fairy tale? - ttddThe Sleeping Beauty
Identify the following ballets. In one scene from this ballet⸴ a bird chirps twice after being given a grape to eat. This ballet ends with one character being thrown around in a blanket. This ballet was commissioned by Sergei Diaghilev and it was choreographed by Leonide Massine. Two characters in this ballet accidently switch clothes in the second act; those characters are the magistrate and the miller. This ballet was inspired by a work of the same name by Pedro Antonio de Alarcon and opens in the Spanish community of Andalusia. Identify this Manuel de Falla ballet that is named for a clothing item worn on the head. - ttddThe Three-Cornered Hat
Identify the following models often depicted in art. What frequent model of Edouard Manet is depicted in Olympia? Her body was used for the primary female figure in his painting Luncheon on the Grass. - ttddVictorine Meurent
Identify the following models often depicted in art. What neighbor of Andrew Wyeth was the subject of over 250 paintings including Braids and Lovers? - ttddHelga Testorf
Identify the following models often depicted in art. This model is depicted running her right hand through her hair while holding a mirror in a set of four paintings titled for [this woman]⸴ A Beautiful Irishwoman. This woman is also depicted laying next to a brunette woman in The Sleepers. In one work⸴ this woman is shown holding a Japanese fan next to a fireplace⸴ and a different painting with this woman depicts her standing on a bear rug while wearing the title color. Identify this model of Gustave Courbet who was also depicted in James Whistler's Symphony in White: No. 1 and 2. - ttddJoanna Hiffernan [The first two works at by George Courbet]
Name these paintings which feature animals. Ants are seen crawling on an orange timepiece in this Salvador Dali painting with three drooping clocks. - ttddThe Persistence of Memory [or La persistencia de la memoria]
Name these paintings which feature animals. A child puts her left foot on top of a sitting dog in this Diego Velazquez painting which depicts the artist creating a portrait of Spanish King Philip IV (the fourth). - ttddLas Meninas (meh-NEE-nahss) [or The Maids of Honor]
Name these paintings which feature animals. Shortly after its creation⸴ Gerrit Lundens created a copy of this painting⸴ the left side of which shows a boy holding onto a railing that has since been cut out of the original. After it was painted⸴ the artist added a shield to an archway in the background which lists the names of eighteen people in this work. In this painting⸴ a well-dressed man in red loads a musket while standing in front of a girl who holds a dead chicken. A yellow and blue flag is being waved behind the primary figures⸴ Willem van Ruytenburch and Frans Banning (*) Cocq. Name this Rembrandt painting of a Dutch militia that is actually set during the day. - ttddThe Night Watch [or De Nachtwacht; before (*) accept The Shooting Company of Captain Frans Banning Cocq and Lieutenant Willem van Ruytenburch or The Militia of Captain Frans Banning Cocq and Lieutenant Willem van Ruytenburch or De compagnie van kapitein Frans Banning Cocq en luitenant Willem van Ruytenburgh maakt zich gereed om uit te marcheren; prompt thereafter]
Name these nicknamed symphonies. This symphony by Joseph Haydn (ˈˈHIGHˈˈ-din) earned its nickname from a sudden fortissimo chord that is placed in its Andante second movement⸴ which may have been intended to wake people up. - ttddSymphony No. 94 in G major⸴ ˈˈSurpriseˈˈ [accept either underlined portion; accept mit den Paukenschlag]
Name these nicknamed symphonies. This symphony⸴ the eighth by Schubert⸴ contains only two completed movements. - ttddUnfinished Symphony [or Unvollendete]
Name these nicknamed symphonies. In writing this symphony⸴ the composer originally intended to have the audience guess the programme to it⸴ leading him to call it ˈˈA Programme Symphonyˈˈ before it was performed. In the middle of its first movement⸴ the bassoon ends a phrase on a dynamic marking of pppppp (ˈˈPˈˈ ˈˈPˈˈ ˈˈPˈˈ ˈˈPˈˈ ˈˈPˈˈ ˈˈPˈˈ). This symphony's second movement⸴ written in 5/4 (ˈˈfiveˈˈ ˈˈfourˈˈ) time⸴ has been called a ˈˈlimping waltz.ˈˈ Due to its nickname and the slow ending to this symphony⸴ this piece is sometimes referred to as the composer's ˈˈsuicide note⸴ˈˈ as nine days after it premiered⸴ the composer died of cholera. Name the last symphony composed by Peter Tchaikovsky (chy-KOFF-skee). - ttddSymphony No. 6 in B minor⸴ ˈˈPathetiqueˈˈ (paa-theh-TEEK) [accept either underlined portion]
Name these Russian composers. This composerˈs String Quartet No. 2 features a famous nocturne. He also composed In the Steppes of Central Asia and the Polovtsian Dances. - ttddAlexander Porfiryevich Borodin (bor-uh-DEEN)
Name these Russian composers. This man used a recurring motif played by the violin to represent the title storyteller in Scheherazade (shuh- ˈˈHAIRˈˈ-uh-zahd). Among the work he did on other composers' music was an orchestration of Mussorgsky's Night on Bald Mountain. - ttddNikolai Andreyevich Rimsky-Korsakov (RIM-skee-KOR-suh-koff) [prompt on partial answer]
Name these Russian composers. A tone poem by this composer uses a rhythm in 5/8 (ˈˈfiveˈˈ ˈˈeightˈˈ) time to depict rowing and was inspired by an Arnold Bocklin (BEK-lin) painting of the same name. A solo piano work by this composer opens with the notes A⸴ G sharp⸴ C sharp. He went through a depression that only ended after hypnotherapy and the success of a concerto that opens with eight crescendoing (cruh-SHEN-doh-ing) chords. This composer of Isle of the Dead inverted the theme for the eighteenth variation in a piece based off the twenty-fourth caprice of an Italian violin virtuoso. Name this composer⸴ whose output includes four piano concertos⸴ ˈˈPrelude in C sharp minor⸴ˈˈ and Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini. - ttddSergei Vasilyevich Rachmaninoff (rock-MAHN-ih-nahff)
Name these art movements. An 1872 painting of a sunrise over the Le Havre (luh hahv) harbor provided inspiration for the name for this art movement whose practitioners included Mary Cassatt and Edgar Degas. - ttddImpressionism [accept Impressionist and other word forms; do not accept ˈˈPost-Impressionismˈˈ or other word forms]
Name these art movements. This early 20th century abstract art movement was co-founded by Georges Braque (zhorzh brahk) and a Spanish painter who had Blue and Rose Periods. - ttddCubism [accept Cubists and other word forms]
Name these art movements. One painting from this movement shows a buxom⸴ red-headed woman smoking next to a red drink that sits on a counter; that work is At the Bar by Maurice de Vlaminck (vlah-MINK). The name of this movement was derived from a comment made by art critic Louis Vauxcelles (LOO-ee voh-ˈˈSELLˈˈ). One practitioner of this movement created a portrait of his wife titled The Green Stripe; another practitioner was Andre Derain (AHN-dray duh-ˈˈRANˈˈ). The best known artist of this movement created a painting with a blue and green backdrop that shows five nude women holding hands in a circle while frolicking; that painting is titled The Dance. With a name that is French for ˈˈwild beasts⸴ˈˈ name this early 20th century art movement practiced by Henri Matisse (muh-TEESE). - ttddFauvism (FOH-vizm) or Fauvists (FOH-vists) or les Fauves (fohvz)
Name these composers⸴ all of whom wrote tone poems. This composer drew on mythology of his home country for pieces such as ˈˈThe Swan of Tuonelaˈˈ and also composed the nationalistic piece Finlandia. - ttddJean Sibelius (zhahn sih-BAY-lee-us) [or Johan Julius Christian Sibelius]
Name these composers⸴ all of whom wrote tone poems. ˈˈThe Moldauˈˈ (ˈˈMOLEˈˈ-dow) is one of six tone poems in this composer's cycle Ma Vlast⸴ which depicts his homeland of Bohemia in the modern-day Czech (ˈˈCHECKˈˈ) Republic. - ttddBedrich Smetana (BED-rik SMEH-tah-nah)
Name these composers⸴ all of whom wrote tone poems. In a tone poem by this composer⸴ the end of night is signaled by an E flat⸴ B flat⸴ B flat⸴ E flat⸴ G⸴ from the oboe. In that piece⸴ this composer has the solo violinist tune the E string down to an E flat to create a triton with the A string. In another piece⸴ he depicts two pianists practicing their scales. This composer used the xylophone to depict dancing skeletons in a tone poem in which Death summons the dead⸴ as well as in the ˈˈFossilsˈˈ movement of a different piece. This composer used a cello with piano accompaniment to depict a swan. Name the French composer of Danse Macabre (dawnss muh-KAHB-ruh) and Carnival of the Animals. - ttddCharles-Camille Saint-Saens (caa-meel san-sahnss)
Name these American artists This artist depicted fellow Hudson River School painter Thomas Cole and poet William Cullen Bryant standing on a cliff in the painting Kindred Spirits. - ttddAsher Brown Durand
Name these American artists This early American painter is best known for his painting Declaration of Independence⸴ which graces the backside of the two-dollar bill. - ttddJohn Trumbull
Name these American artists The first book by art historian Lloyd Goodrich dealt with the Life and Work of this artist⸴ who painted the Biglin brothers in several of his works. This artist had his wife⸴ Susan⸴ paint himself into the right end of a work that shows Dr. David Agnew holding a scalpel. This artist and five other young men are shown enjoying Dove Lake while naked in the painting The Swimming Hole. The Schuylkill (SKOOL-ˈˈkillˈˈ) River was the setting of another of his paintings which shows a single scull being used by Max Schmitt. In his best known work⸴ a woman cringes as a crowd witnesses a surgery being performed by the title doctor. Name this artist of The Gross Clinic. - ttddThomas Cowperthwait Eakins (AY-kinz)
Name these European artists. Several nude women gather around a body of water in The Bathers⸴ a work by this French artist known for his several paintings of Mont Sainte-Victoire (mawn sant-veek-TWAR). - ttddPaul Cezanne (say-zahn)
Name these European artists. Adele Bloch-Bauer was the subject of two portraits by this Austrian painter best known for depicting two figures clad in gold while performing the title activity in The Kiss. - ttddGustav Klimt
Name these European artists. This artist depicted a levitating man who contorts his body to kiss a woman holding a bouquet in a painting entitled Birthday. In another work by this artist⸴ a purple-dressed man carrying scrolls⸴ a group of soldiers waving red flags⸴ and a burning synagogue topped by a Lithuanian flag are among various scenes that surround the colorful title event. A man carrying a scythe and an upside down woman playing the violin both appear in his best known painting⸴ which shows a green-faced man staring into the eyes of a goat. Name this Russian-born Jewish painter of White Crucifixion and I and the Village. - ttddMarc (Zaharovich) Chagall (shuh-GAHL)
Name these musical instruments. This instrument plays at its highest register in the opening to The Rite of Spring and represents the grandfather in Peter and the Wolf. - ttddbassoon
Name these musical instruments. Georg Philipp Telemann wrote the first extant concerto for this instrument⸴ which plays the solo part in Harold in Italy. - ttddviola
Name these musical instruments. Along with the timpani⸴ Francis Poulenc (POO-lonk) wrote a single-movement concerto for this instrument in G minor. Charles-Marie Widor's (vee-DORZ) fifth symphony for this instrument ends with his famous ˈˈToccata.ˈˈ A performance of John Cage's ASLSP (ˈˈAˈˈ ˈˈSˈˈ ˈˈLˈˈ ˈˈSˈˈ ˈˈPˈˈ) on this instrument will end in the year 2640. Because two sections of it use this instrument⸴ Camille Saint-Saens' third symphony is nicknamed after it. J.S. Bach supposedly traveled a few hundred miles to see Dieterich Buxtehude (BOOKS-tuh-HOO-duh) perform on this instrument and later wrote his Toccata and Fugue in D minor for it. Name this large instrument often found in churches. - ttddpipe organ
Name these places of historical importance to classical music. This city's philharmonic orchestra performs a popular annual New Year's concert. It rose to prominence as a musical center during the Classical period⸴ when composers such as Joseph Haydn and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart worked here. - ttddVienna [or Wien]
Name these places of historical importance to classical music. Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov was inspired by the music of this country to write a ˈˈCapriccioˈˈ off it. A composer from this country wrote ˈˈRitual Fire Dance.ˈˈ - ttddKingdom of Spain [or Reino de Espana]
Name these places of historical importance to classical music. A composer from this country developed a method of teaching music that focuses on the use of folk music and singing as a basis. That composer used folk melodies of this country in his Dances of Galanta and Hary Janos (YA- nohsh) Suite. Another composer from this country developed a style of ˈˈnight musicˈˈ in several of his pieces and arranged 153 piano pieces from easy to hard in Mikrokosmos. This birthplace of Zoltan Kodaly is also home to a composer who used gypsy melodies in a set of rhapsodies named after this country. Name this country⸴ the birthplace of Bela Bartok and Franz Liszt (ˈˈlistˈˈ). - ttddKingdom of Hungary [accept Republic of Hungary or Magyarorszag or Magyar Kostarsasag]
Identify the following countries that appear in the names of musical compositions. What country appears in the name of a set of twenty-one dances by Johannes Brahms? - ttddHungary or Hungarian
Identify the following countries that appear in the names of musical compositions. What country appears in the name of a tone poem by Jean Sibelius which was originally performed under censored titles? - ttddFinland or Finlandia
Identify the following countries that appear in the names of musical compositions. This country appears in the title of an opera where Selim is indifferent toward Zaida and Fiorilla⸴ and in that opera⸴ Prosdocimo advises Don Geronimo. It's not an African nation⸴ but another opera with this country in its name sees Lindoro fall in love with the title girl⸴ Isabella. Those two operas are The Turk in [this country] and The [girl from this country] in Algiers. In a third piece partially named for this country⸴ the title character is represented by a viola and the composer based that work on a Lord Byron work. Mendelssohn's Fourth Symphony in A Major is named for what country which completes the Hector Berlioz work⸴ Harold in [this country]? - ttddItaly or Italian [accept ˈˈTurkeyˈˈ or ˈˈTurkˈˈ until ˈˈLindoroˈˈ is said⸴ do not prompt or accept ˈˈAlgeriaˈˈ at any point⸴ and the first two operas are by Giacomo Rossini]
Identify these body parts based on their appearance in the following paintings. Leonardo Da Vinci notably excluded which features from the face of Lisa Gherardini in the Mona Lisa? - ttddEyebrows
Identify these body parts based on their appearance in the following paintings. Vincent Van Gogh created a Self Portrait with a Bandaged one of which of his body parts⸴ which he notably sent to Paul Gauguin? - ttddEar
Identify these body parts based on their appearance in the following paintings. This body part is shown in a box surrounded by musical instruments in the painting⸴ Metaphysical Interior with [this body part] of David by Giorgio de Chirico. A red one of these body parts appears on top of a white structure in Salvador Dali's painting⸴ Apparatus and [this body part]. Le Corbusier included an ˈˈopenˈˈ monument of one of these body parts in the planned city of Chandigarh. Alfred Stieglitz famously photographed these body parts of Georgia O'Keefe and these body parts are depicted paradoxically in one lithograph depicting them. Identify these body parts which M. C. Escher depicted ˈˈdrawingˈˈ one another. - ttddHands [Prompt on ˈˈArm(s)⸴ˈˈ and anti-prompt on ˈˈFinger(s)ˈˈ]
Answer the following about children in music. Sergei Prokofiev created what musical composition which used string instruments and french horns to represent the two title characters? - ttddPeter and the Wolf
Answer the following about children in music. What Benjamin Britten composition⸴ intended to teach children about different instruments⸴ was scored for unusual instruments such as the cowbell and tamtam? - ttddA Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra
Answer the following about children in music. In one work⸴ this composer used the lyrics⸴ ˈˈWe would gladly stay with you! / Now that is denied to us by Fate⸴ˈˈ from the poem⸴ ˈˈNow I see well⸴ why with such dark flames.ˈˈ That aforementioned work includes five poems written by Friedrich Ruckert⸴ and was titled Kindertotenlieder or Songs on the Death of Children. This composer called his ninth symphony The Song of the Earth⸴ and he based another work off of the hymn⸴ ˈˈVeni Creator Spiritus.ˈˈ What German composer's eighth symphony is called the Symphony of a Thousand? - ttddGustav Mahler
Identify the following landscape artists. What member of the Hudson River School depicted the Catskill Mountains in his painting Kindred Spirits? - ttddAsher Brown Durand
Identify the following landscape artists. This artist was inspired by a James Thomson poem for a painting that depicts the title object spewing out the mythical medicine⸴ nepenthe. This artist of The Fountain of Indolence depicted a mountain in his paintings The Blue Rigi and The Red Rigi⸴ and he depicted an October 16⸴ 1834 event in two paintings entitled The Burning of the Houses of Lords and Commons. This artist showed Hannibal crossing the Alps in Snow Storm and depicted the Maidenhead Railway Bridge in his most famous painting. What British artist painted Rain⸴ Steam⸴ and Speed? - ttddTeam A:What other member of the Hudson River school depicted a South American mountain range in The Heart of the Andes? ANSWER: Frederic Edwin Church ANSWER: J. M. W. Turner
Identify the following composers who were inspired by artworks for their compositions. Viktor Hartmann illustrations served as the basis for what Russian composer's suite⸴ Pictures at an Exhibition? - ttddModest Mussorgsky
Identify the following composers who were inspired by artworks for their compositions. What other Russian composer was inspired by an Arnold Bocklin painting for his symphonic poem⸴ Isle of the Dead? He is better known for composing Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini. - ttddSergei Rachmaninoff
Identify the following composers who were inspired by artworks for their compositions. This composer instructed for all instruments to sound ˈˈlike ghostsˈˈ in a composition that was inspired by a Wilhelm von Kaulbach painting of the same name⸴ Hunnenschlacht. ˈˈAimer⸴ aimer voilaˈˈ is an aria sung in this composer's only opera about Elzire and the title character entitled Don Sanche. This composer included ˈˈThe Dance in the Village Innˈˈ as the first work in a set of waltzes called Mephisto⸴ and he transitioned from a lassan to a friska in one of his most famous works. What composer created the Hungarian Rhapsodies? - ttddFranz Liszt
Identify these animals in art. Albrecht Durer created an anatomically inaccurate woodcut of the Indian variety of what horned animal? - ttddRhinoceros
Identify these animals in art. John Singleton Copley depicted his half brother⸴ Henry Pelham⸴ holding what animal on a gold chain in one painting? - ttddSquirrel
Identify these animals in art. It's not a shark⸴ but one of these animals is shown outside a small house surrounded by palm trees in Winslow Homer's Native Huts⸴ Nassau. In another Homer painting⸴ a white and pink clad girl holds a white one of these animals in a painting titled for a sick one of these. Katsushika Hokusai notably dipped the legs of one of these animals into red paint prior to placing it on a canvas to create maple leaves. In another painting⸴ a dead one of these animals is held in an illuminated girl's belt. Identify this kind of bird that appears in Rembrandt's The Night Watch. - ttddChickens [Accept ˈˈRoostersˈˈ⸴ Prompt on ˈˈBirdsˈˈ until mentioned]
Identify the following operas. What third opera in Richard Wagner's Ring Cycle is named for a Norse hero? - ttddSiegfried
Identify the following operas. What is the second opera in Richard Wagner's Ring Cycle? It is named for Brunnhilde⸴ who decides who lives or dies in battle. - ttddThe Valkyrie or Die Walkure
Identify the following operas. This opera was based on a play of the same name by Antonio Garcia Gutierrez⸴ and its libretto was primarily written by Salvadore Cammarano. In this opera⸴ Leonora confesses her love in the aria⸴ ˈˈTacea la notte placida.ˈˈ This opera opens with a gypsy accused of witchcraft being burnt at the stake. One character in this opera professes her desire to avenge her mother in the aria⸴ ˈˈStride la vampa.ˈˈ Count di Luna orders the execution of the protagonist in this opera. The Anvil Chorus is performed in what Giuseppe Verdi opera about the title figure⸴ Manrico. - ttddIl Trovatore or The Troubadour
Identify the following paintings which include depictions of boats. What John Singleton Copley painting depicts a two men in white reaching for the title boy who struggles in the waters of Havana Harbor? - ttddWatson and the Shark
Identify the following paintings which include depictions of boats. What Winslow Homer painting showed sharks swimming around a black man in a small boat in the title location? - ttddThe Gulf Stream
Identify the following paintings which include depictions of boats. In 1994⸴ Pal Enger was convicted of stealing this painting on the same day as the opening of the Winter Olympics. A note saying ˈˈThanks for the poor securityˈˈ was left in place of this painting. In 2004⸴ this painting was stolen yet again⸴ but was recovered with only minor water damage. It's not a work of Impressionism⸴ but two small boats can be seen in the middle of this painting. Due to the eruption of Mount Krakatoa⸴ the sky appears a blood-orange in this painting that also shows a distorted figure clutching his face while doing the title action. Identify this painting⸴ by the Norwegian artist Edvard Munch. - ttddThe Scream or Skirk
Name these paintings. A view from an asylum in Saint-Remy-de-Provence (san ray-mee dur proh-vahnss) is the subject of this 1889 painting⸴ whose left side is dominated by a cypress tree that appears in the foreground. - ttddThe Starry Night
Name these paintings. In this 1793 painting⸴ the lone figure holds a quill pen in one hand⸴ while his other hand holds a letter that features the name Charlotte Corday. - ttddThe Death of Marat [or La Mort de Marat or Marat Assassine]
Name these paintings. One version of this painting whose authenticity is questioned is named after the English town of Isleworth. This painting may have been trimmed to remove columns that were visible on the extreme left and rights edges. The best known title of this painting was coined by art historian Giorgio Vasari (JOR-jo vuh-ZAR-ee). For a work entitled L.H.O.O.Q.⸴ Marcel Duchamp (mar-SEL doo-SHAHMP) added facial hair to a depiction of this painting. In December 2015⸴ it was announced that there was a hidden portrait under this work⸴ which is currently protected by bulletproof glass as the most-visited painting in the Louvre (loov). Name this portrait of a smiling Italian woman by Leonardo da Vinci. - ttddMona Lisa [or La Gioconda (lah jyoh-KOHN-dah) or La Joconde or Portrait of Lisa Gherardini⸴ wife of Francesco del Giocondo]
Name these instruments in classical music. Joshua Bell⸴ Hilary Hahn⸴ and Niccolo Paganini are classical performers renowned for their virtuosity with this instrument. - ttddviolin
Name these instruments in classical music. Jacqueline du Pre and Yo-Yo Ma are classical performers renowned for their virtuosity with this instrument. - ttddcello
Name these instruments in classical music. Malcolm Arnold composed a ˈˈFantasy forˈˈ this instrument⸴ whose virtuosos include Harvey Philips and his teacher⸴ William Bell. Bill Barber is considered to be the first player of this instrument in jazz⸴ as he played it for the album Birth of the Cool. The ophicleide (OFF-ih-klide) was the predecessor to this modern instrument⸴ whose variants include the euphonium⸴ which is pitched one octave higher than a common version of this instrument. The sousaphone is a form of what biggest and lowest-pitched of the brass instruments? - ttddtuba
Give these composers who named some of their compositions after the times of day. The Morning⸴ Noon⸴ and Evening are names of three early symphonies by this composer⸴ who is known as the ˈˈfather of the string quartet.ˈˈ - ttddFranz Joseph Haydn (ˈˈHIGHˈˈ-din)
Give these composers who named some of their compositions after the times of day. The Noon Witch⸴ a tone poem depicting a child being smothered⸴ was written by this composer also known for his Slavonic Dances⸴ which was originally written for piano four hands. - ttddAntonin Leopold Dvorak (ahn-toh-NEEN d'VOR-zhahk)
Give these composers who named some of their compositions after the times of day. One work by this composer depicts Spain in its movements ˈˈThe Fragrance of the Nightˈˈ and ˈˈThe Morning of a Festival Day.ˈˈ It is not Isaac Albeniz⸴ but this composer's Iberia piece is the middle section of his Images for Orchestra. A poem by Paul Verlaine inspired the third movement of this composer's Suite Bergamasque (BAIR-guh-mahsk). This composer depicted the ˈˈPlay of the Wavesˈˈ in a symphonic piece of programme music which also includes a ˈˈDialogue Between Wind and Waves.ˈˈ Name this French composer of ˈˈClaire de Luneˈˈ and La Mer⸴ which is translated as ˈˈThe Sea.ˈˈ - ttddAchille-Claude Debussy (klohd deb-yoo-see)
Name the following things based on clues about their appearance in paintings. One of these objects comes out of a living room fireplace in the Rene Magritte painting Time Transfixed⸴ and one moves towards the viewer in J.M.W. Turner's painting Rain⸴ Steam⸴ and Speed. - ttddtrains [or locomotives]
Name the following things based on clues about their appearance in paintings. 20th century American artist Jasper Johns is best known for his numerous paintings depicting these objects⸴ a large blue and yellow one of which is held high in the background of the Rembrandt painting The Night Watch. - ttddflags
Name the following things based on clues about their appearance in paintings. This figure's face is visible only in a mirror in a work that exemplifies a namesake painting ˈˈeffectˈˈ and is nicknamed after the English residence Rokeby Park. This is the title figure of a painting whose background features a woman with a dress slung over her shoulder standing next to a girl rummaging through a chest. In that work⸴ a dog lies at the foot of this figure while she holds flowers and reclines nude on a bed. Jacques-Louis David's (ZHAHK loo-EE dah- VEEDZ) last painting shows ˈˈMars Being Disarmed byˈˈ this goddess⸴ who titles a Titian (TEE-shun) painting showing this goddess ˈˈof Urbino.ˈˈ Name this Roman goddess whose ˈˈbirthˈˈ was painted by Sandro Botticelli. - ttddVenus [accept Venus effect or Rokeby Venus or The Toilet of Venus or Venus at Her Mirror or Venus of Urbino or Mars Being Disarmed by Venus or The Birth of Venus]
Name the following related to painters appearing in other artist's works. In one work⸴ this artist depicted Claude Monet ˈˈpainting by the edge of a wood.ˈˈ His best known painting depicts Virginie Gautreau (veer-zhuh-nee goh-troh) in a black dress. - ttddJohn Singer Sargent
Name the following related to painters appearing in other artist's works. The studio of artist Gustave Moreau (morr-oh) was the subject of one painting by this man⸴ who is better known for a painting in which five nude women hold hands in a circle in front of a blue and green background. - ttddHenri Matisse (awn-ree mah-teess) [or Henri-Emile-Benoit Matisse]
Name the following related to painters appearing in other artist's works. This artist was the subject of a painting by Salvador Dali which depicts his ghost being ˈˈused as a table.ˈˈ One painting by this artist is thought to depict Antonie van Leeuwenhoek (ANN-toh-nee von LAY-ven-ˈˈhookˈˈ)⸴ who reaches out his right hand to touch a globe. In one painting⸴ this artist of The Astronomer depicts an instructor standing next to a girl who plays the virginals. In another of his works⸴ he depicted himself painting a girl who holds a trumpet in front of a large map. This artist of The Music Lesson and The Allegory of Painting is better known for a landscape painting of his hometown and a work that depicts a girl who wears a blue and yellow hard scarf with the title jewelry. Name this Dutch painter of View of Delft and Girl with a Pearl Earring. - ttddJan Vermeer (yahn vur-MEER) [or Johan Vermeer or Johannes Vermeer]
Name these German composers. This composer's coronation anthem Zadok the Priest has been played at every British coronation since it was composed. He also composed Music for the Royal Fireworks. - ttddGeorge Frideric Handel or Georg Friedrich Handel
Name these German composers. A novel by Jean Paul inspired Papillons⸴ which was a series of piano sketches by this composer of the Rhenish Symphony. - ttddRobert Schumann
Name these German composers. A choral work by this composer sets to music a poem beginning ˈˈYe wander gladly in lightˈˈ and is called the Song of Destiny. This composer's violin concerto was premiered by Joseph Joachim. A choral work by this composer unusually uses Martin Luther's translation of the Bible as its source material and ends with a section called ˈˈBlessed are the Dead.ˈˈ This composer's first symphony was derisively called Beethoven's Tenth since it resembled it. Give this 19th century composer of A German Requiem who is known for a namesake ˈˈlullaby.ˈˈ - ttddJohannes Brahms
Name these forms used in classical music. Franz Schubert's ˈˈDeath and the Maidenˈˈ is an example of a piece of classical music composed for this ensemble⸴ which also includes Bedrich Smetana's (BED-rik SMEH-tah-nahz) ˈˈFrom My Life.ˈˈ - ttddstring quartet [prompt on ˈˈquartetˈˈ]
Name these forms used in classical music. Examples of these pieces include Alexander Scriabin's ˈˈBlack Massˈˈ and Ludwig von Beethoven's ˈˈThe Hunt.ˈˈ Another one of these works by Beethoven features the words ˈˈQuasi una fantasiaˈˈ in its score. - ttddpiano sonata [prompt on ˈˈsonataˈˈ]
Name these forms used in classical music. The ˈˈtableˈˈ type of this musical form features a single sheet of music placed between two musicians⸴ who play the piece forwards and backwards at the same time. The minuet in Joseph Haydn's (ˈˈHIGHˈˈ-dinz) ˈˈFifthsˈˈ string quartet is in this form. A chord consisting of D⸴ A⸴ B⸴ F sharp⸴ G⸴ D⸴ G⸴ A⸴ is repeatedly played in one of these pieces⸴ which is often paired with a gigue (zheeg). A round is often called a ˈˈperpetualˈˈ type of this art form. Name this type of composition⸴ which includes one by Johann Pachelbel (PAH-kul-bell) in the key of D. - ttddcanon [accept table canon or perpetual canon or Canon in D or Pachelbel's canon]
Name these European artists. This Dutch Renaissance artist is best known for depicting scenes from the Garden of Eden and Hell flanking a depiction of the title location in his triptych (ˈˈTRIPˈˈ-tik) The Garden of Earthly Delights. - ttddHieronymus Bosch (ˈˈhiˈˈ-uh-RAHN-uh-muss ˈˈboshˈˈ) [or Jheronimus van Aken]
Name these European artists. This 18th century English artist is best known for using Jonathan Buttall as the model for the title child in his painting The Blue Boy. - ttddThomas Gainsborough
Name these European artists. Four women play the blanket toss game with the title figure of this artist's painting The Straw Manikin. He depicted a mutilated body that has been impaled upon a tree branch in an etching entitled This is worse. The painting The Charge of the Mamelukes (MAM-lookz) is a companion piece to the best known work by this artist of The Disasters of War series. That best known work by this artist depicts a lantern illuminating a man in a white shirt who raises his hands upward while facing a French firing squad about to shoot several Spanish citizens. Name this Spaniard who painted The Third of May 1808. - ttddFrancisco Jose de Goya (GOY-uh) y Lucientes
Name these jazz artists. ˈˈChameleonˈˈ and ˈˈWatermelon Manˈˈ are two jazz standards that appeared on Head Hunters⸴ which was recorded by this funk jazz pianist. - ttddHerbie Hancock [or Herbert Jeffrey Hancock]
Name these jazz artists. This jazz singer was known for scat singing and made popular recordings of the songs ˈˈDream a Little of Meˈˈ and ˈˈA-Tisket⸴ A-Tasket.ˈˈ - ttddElla Jane Fitzgerald
Name these jazz artists. With Al Fraser⸴ this man wrote the memoir To Be or Not To Bop. One album by this jazz musician ends with the song ˈˈEmanonˈˈ and features his big band recordings; that album by this musician is titled Groovin' High. With the drummer Kenny Clark⸴ this man composed the jazz standard ˈˈSalt Peanuts.ˈˈ While playing with the Benny Carter Big Band⸴ he wrote a song that incorporated African rhythms. ˈˈA Night in Tunisiaˈˈ was written by what jazz trumpeter who often puffed his cheeks and was nicknamed ˈˈDizzyˈˈ? - ttddDizzy Gillespie [or John Birks Gillespie]
Name these composers of symphonies. Depictions of ˈˈA Ballˈˈ and a ˈˈMarch to the Scaffoldˈˈ appears in this composer's hallucinatory work Symphonie Fantastique (san-faw-nee fahn-tas-TEEK). - ttddLouis-Hector Berlioz (ek-tor bair-lee-ohz)
Name these composers of symphonies. This Soviet composer described his fifth symphony as a ˈˈcreative response to justified criticism.ˈˈ He created fifteen symphonies in total⸴ including one named Leningrad. - ttddDmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich (shawss-tuh-KOH-vitch)
Name these composers of symphonies. This composer's sixth symphony is dedicated to Hans Richter and incorporates a dance called the ˈˈfuriant.ˈˈ This composer's first symphony is in C minor and nicknamed after the Bells of Zlonice (zloh-NISS). Another of this composer's symphonies features a flute playing the melody to ˈˈSwing Low⸴ Sweet Chariot.ˈˈ That symphony by this composer is thought to be largely based on African-American spirituals and was inspired by a trip to the United States. Name this Czech composer of the New World Symphony. - ttddAntonin Leopold Dvorak (ahn-toh-NEEN d'VOR-zhahk)
Name these paintings that feature nudity. Five students and the artist⸴ all of whom are nude⸴ congregate in and around Dove Lake in this 1885 painting by Thomas Eakins (AY-kinz). - ttddThe Swimming Hole [or Swimming or The Old Swimming Hole]
Name these paintings that feature nudity. Several nude concubines are being attacked in this 1827 Eugene Delacroix (oo-ZHEN duh-luh-KWAH) painting in which the title figure reclines on a bed while another nude woman prostrates before him. - ttddThe Death of Sardanapalus [or La Mort de Sardanapale]
Name these paintings that feature nudity. The artist of this painting created a work entitled Heads of Torture Victims while studying the decomposition of amputated heads to prep for execution of this work. In the bottom right corner of this painting⸴ a partially nude corpse is covered in a translucent white sheet and has his head emerged in water. In this painting⸴ which caused controversy when it was first displayed at the 1819 Paris Salon⸴ an African man stands on a barrel and waves a white and red cloth towards a ship far in the distance as a wave threatens to overturn the title object. The frantic survivors of an 1816 shipwreck are the subject of what best known painting by Theodore Gericault (tay-oh-dor zhair-ih-koh)? - ttddThe Raft of the Medusa [or Le Radeau de la Meduse]
Name these artists who incorporated music into some of their works. Two Women Waltzing are the subjects of one work by this Post-Impressionist French painter best remembered for his depictions of the Paris cabaret (ˈˈCABˈˈ-uh-ˈˈrayˈˈ) Moulin Rouge (MOO-lahn roozh). - ttddHenri Marie Raymond de Toulouse-Lautrec-Monfa (ˈˈtooˈˈ-looz-loh-trek) [prompt on partial answer]
Name these artists who incorporated music into some of their works. A barbershop quartet was the subject of a 1936 illustration by this American artist whose painting Freedom from Want⸴ which is part of his Four Freedoms series⸴ depicts an extended family gathered around a table for a Thanksgiving turkey dinner. - ttddNorman Percevel Rockwell
Name these artists who incorporated music into some of their works. A red jug and two onions lie next the bench on which the title guitarist sits in this artist's painting The Spanish Singer. He depicted a large group of people⸴ including author Charles Baudelaire (boh-duh-ˈˈlairˈˈ)⸴ enjoying a concert in the title Paris garden in the painting Music in the Tuileries (TWEE-luh-ree). In a better known painting⸴ a black cat stands at the feet of a reclining⸴ nude woman who is being offered a bouquet of flowers by a black servant. Another of his works shows a nude woman sitting in the woods with two fully-clothed men during the title meal. Name this French artist of Olympia and The Luncheon on the Grass. - ttddEdouard Manet (ayd-wahr maa-nay) [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈMonetˈˈ]
Answer the following about oratorios. This 1797 oratorio musically depicts the movement of whales and cattle. A libretto by Gottfried von Swieten is part of this oratorio⸴ which was inspired by two books of the Bible and John Milton's Paradise Lost. - ttddThe Creation [or Die Schopfung]
Answer the following about oratorios. A long poem by James Thomson inspired this other oratorio by Joseph Haydn (ˈˈHIGHˈˈ-din) which musically depicts various times of the year. - ttddThe Seasons [or Die Jahreseitzen; do not accept ˈˈThe Four Seasonsˈˈ]
Answer the following about oratorios. One overture by this composer was written to accompany the Heinrich Collin play Coriolan (KOR-ee-uh-lan). This composer's only oratorio is titled Christ on the Mount of Olives. One of his masses sets the Miserere (me-zuh-RAY- ray) in its last movement⸴ which is titled Agnus Dei (AG-ˈˈnooseˈˈ DEH-ee). This composer created a symphony in E-flat major whose second movement consists of a ˈˈMarcia Funebreˈˈ (MAR-chuh FOO-nay-bray) in C minor. That symphony by this composer of Missa Solemnis was originally dedicated to Napoleon⸴ but its dedication was changed to the ˈˈmemory of a great man.ˈˈ Name this German who composed the Eroica Symphony while he was going deaf. - ttddLudwig van Beethoven
Name these 19th century artists. This French ˈˈplein (plehn) airˈˈ painter who was born in the Virgin Islands created a series of paintings of the Boulevard Montmartre (mohn-MART-ruh). In another painting⸴ he depicted Rouen's (roo-awnz) Pont Boieldieu (pon ˈˈBOY-yell-doˈˈ) in ˈˈrainy weather.ˈˈ - ttddJacob Abraham Camille Pissarro (pih-SAR-oh)
Name these 19th century artists. Surprised! is an alternate title of this other French artist's painting Tiger in a Tropical Storm. He may be best known for a painting in which a lion stands above the title woman. - ttddHenri Julien Felix Rousseau
Name these 19th century artists. A man lies on several large books at the top of a column in one painting by this artist⸴ which depicts an imagined scene in which a faint Egyptian pyramid appears behind a Roman aqueduct that sits above a Greek temple. Another of his paintings depicts a gigantic stone drinking cup filled with water. Those paintings by this artist are entitled The Architect's Dream and The Titan's Goblet. This artist included The Savage State and Destruction within a five-part painting series entitled The Course of Empire. A hilltop view of a turn in the Connecticut River is the subject of his painting The Oxbow. Name this founder of the Hudson River School who tutored Frederic Church. - ttddThomas Cole
Answer the following about works of classical music completed or added to by another composer. Colin Matthews added a movement called ˈˈthe Renewerˈˈ to this seven-movement suite⸴ whose various movements depict a ˈˈmysticˈˈ and a ˈˈbringer of old age.ˈˈ - ttddThe Planets⸴ Op. 32
Answer the following about works of classical music completed or added to by another composer. Frank Merrick wrote an ˈˈEnglish Zoneˈˈ movement to an orchestral work by this composer. Other composers to add to that aforementioned work by this composer include Felix Weingartner and Robin Holloway⸴ the latter of whom wrote a scherzo (SKAIRT-soh) for it. - ttddFranz Peter Schubert
Answer the following about works of classical music completed or added to by another composer. Colin Matthews provided his own material to try to complete this composer's unfinished 10th symphony⸴ which incorporated atonal elements. One symphony by this composer was named after a Jean Paul novel and includes a funeral march based on Frere Jacques (FRAY-ruh ZHAH-kuh). The title of his second symphony is taken from an ode by Friedrich Klopstock that begins with the words ˈˈArise⸴ yes⸴ you shall rise again.ˈˈ The nickname of his 8th symphony alludes to the fact that many performers are needed to play it. Name this Austrian composer of such symphonies as Titan⸴ Resurrection⸴ and Symphony of a Thousand. - ttddGustav Mahler (MAH-lur)
Name these musical instruments given ethno-musicological clues about them. The Senegalese xalam is thought to be a predecessor of this folk instrument. In jazz⸴ the earliest performer of this instrument was Johnny St. Cyr. - ttddbanjo
Name these musical instruments given ethno-musicological clues about them. This instrument⸴ which may have been given a derogatory name because its performers often drooled⸴ is placed against the teeth and plucked using the fingers. - ttddJew harp [accept Jew's harp or jaw harp or mouth harp or Ozark harp or juice harp or trump; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈharpˈˈ]
Name these musical instruments given ethno-musicological clues about them. Yasuo Kuwahara was a Japanese composer largely remembered for composing pieces for this instrument. Giovanni Paisiello (ˈˈpieˈˈ-ZEH-loh) wrote two concerti for this instrument⸴ which was largely popularized in America due to its masterful player⸴ Valentine Abt. Pasquale Vinaccia created the Neapolitan form of this instrument⸴ which features 17 frets on its fingerboard. The most common form of this instrument features four pairs of plucked strings that are tuned in a succession of perfect fifths. Bluegrass music commonly features what (*) lute-like instrument that is pear-shaped? - ttddmandolin [prompt on ˈˈluteˈˈ before (*)]
Name these painters born in the 18th century. This Anglo-American artist depicted a Native American and many British military officers surrounding the title character of his best known painting⸴ The Death of General Wolfe. - ttddBenjamin West
Name these painters born in the 18th century. This American artist created the notable portrait of Paul Revere holding a silver teacup⸴ best his best known painting is set in Havana harbor and depicts an attack on a boy named Brook. - ttddJohn Singleton Copley
Name these painters born in the 18th century. This artist included a depiction of Jordon Hill and Bowleaze Cove in a landscape painting set at Weymouth Bay. He created two separate paintings⸴ one ˈˈfrom the Meadowsˈˈ and another ˈˈfrom the Bishop's Groundsˈˈ⸴ of Salisbury (SAHLZ-bree) Cathedral. His painting Dedham Vale depicts the countryside near the setting of his best known painting⸴ which includes a view of Willy Lott's cottage. In that painting⸴ the River Stour (stur) is crossed by three horses pulling the title cart. Name this English artist of The Hay Wain. - ttddJohn Constable
Answer the following about non-modern sculptures. Phidias used both ivory and gold to create a massive sculpture of this figure⸴ which inspired Horatio Greenough's sculpture of George Washington. - ttddZeus [accept Zeus at Olympia]
Answer the following about non-modern sculptures. Phidias also created a massive gold and ivory sculpture of this other figure to stand in the Parthenon. - ttddAthena [accept Athena Parthenos]
Answer the following about non-modern sculptures. This sculpture is commemorated in the third section of a 1917 symphonic poem by Ottorino Respighi (OHT-toh- REE-noh reh-SPEE-gee)⸴ which uses trombones to indicate the arrival of Neptune. Though Pope Urban VIII (ˈˈthe 8thˈˈ) commissioned Gian Lorenzo Bernini to create this work⸴ it wasnˈt actually built until 100 years later⸴ when Giuseppe Pannini finished it. This artwork was designed by Nicola Salvi and can be found in front of the Palazzo Poli. The Acqua Vergine (AH-kwah VAYR-jee-nay) aqueduct provides water to this object⸴ into which thousands of coins are thrown each day. Name this large fountain in Rome. - ttddTrevi Fountain [or Fontana de Trevi]
Name these paintings by European artists. A horse pokes its head from behind a red curtain in this 1781 Henry Fuseli painting in which an incubus sits on the chest of a sleeping woman. - ttddThe Nightmare
Name these paintings by European artists. In this multi-paneled painting by Mathias Grunewald⸴ a depiction of the crucifixion of Jesus is flanked by two images: one featuring St. Anthony with a monster in the background⸴ and another depicting St. Sebastian⸴ who has been pierced through the chest by an arrow. - ttddIsenheim Altarpiece
Name these paintings by European artists. At the bottom of this work⸴ several rakes appear to have been discarded in a bush with pink flowers. This painting was created at the request of Charles Colle (coh-LAY) after the commission was turned down by Gabriel Doyen (GAB-ree-ell DWAI-awn) due to the subject matter. Along the left edge of this painting is a sculpture of Cupid holding a finger to his lips. A man on the right side of this painting stands in the shadows while holding two ropes. The primary figure of this painting is a woman in pink who kicks off her shoe while a man below looks up her dress. Name this Jean- Honore Fragonard painting in which a woman sits on the title object. - ttddThe Swing [or L'Escarpolette; accept The Happy Accidents of the Swing or Les Hasards Heureux de l'Escarpolette]
Name these European artists. This English court painter is perhaps best known for his many paintings of King Charles I⸴ including one that now resides at the Louvre showing the king ˈˈat the hunt.ˈˈ - ttddSir Anthony van Dyck (ˈˈdikeˈˈ) [or Antoon van Dyck]
Name these European artists. The Louvre also houses one of this Frenchman's best known paintings⸴ which depicts four people gathered around a grave and is titled Et in Arcadia ego. - ttddNicholas Poussin (poo-SAHN)
Name these European artists. In one painting by this artist⸴ a sword lies next to the title figure as he sits at the base of a tree with blood coming through his shirt. This artist of The Wounded Man depicted himself with his hands in his hair and a frantic look in a self- portrait entitled The Desperate Man. A nude woman stands behind a man who is painting a landscape scene in a massive painting by this artist subtitled A real allegory summing up seven years of my artistic and moral life. In perhaps his best known painting⸴ several clergy and a white dog stand next to a hole that has been dug for a funeral in the title town. The Artist's Studio was painted by what French Realist artist who also painted A Burial at Ornans (or-NAHN)? - ttddGustave Courbet (ˈˈcore-BAYˈˈ) [or Jean Desire Gustave Courbet]
Answer the following about performers of classical music. Yehudi Menuhin gave his violin to this other Israeli violinist⸴ who also was once conductor of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. - ttddItzhak Perlman
Answer the following about performers of classical music. This Catalan cellist made prominent recordings of various cello works by J.S. Bach⸴ as well as many other cello sonatas and concerti. - ttddPablo Casals (kah-SAHLZ) [or Pau Casals i Defillo]
Answer the following about performers of classical music. Peter Tchaikovsky's (chye-KOFF-skeez) first concerto for this instrument was written for Nikolai Rubinstein⸴ who severely criticized it⸴ which led Hans von Bulow to premiere it in his stead. A player of this instrument from Texas won the first International Tchaikovsky Competition for this instrument in 1958. Holocaust survivor Wladyslaw Szpilman (VWAH-dis-wahf SHPEEL-mahn) was a practitioner of this instrument⸴ which was also played by Van Cliburn and Leonard Bernstein. A 2002 Roman Polanski film centered on a title musician who played what instrument that has 88 black and white keys? - ttddpianoforte
Name these American artists. Amid the Battle of Quebec⸴ a Native American sits in a pose reminiscent of Rodin's The Thinker in the best known work by this colonial-era artist who also painted Pennˈs Treaty with the Indians. - ttddBenjamin West
Name these American artists. Five paintings comprise the Course of Empire series created by this 19th century artist whose other notable works include The Titan's Goblet and The Oxbow. - ttddThomas Cole
Name these American artists. An impending hilltop collision between a car and red truck is the subject of this artist's painting Death on Ridge Road. One painting by this artist depicts a tall church being passed by a galloping horse⸴ while another of his works shows three old ladies standing in front of a copy of Emanuel Leutze's (LOYT-zuhz) Washington Crossing the Delaware. Those paintings are The Midnight Ride of Paul Revere and Daughters of Revolution. The Dibble House is portrayed in his best known work⸴ which depicts two figures modeled after this artist's sister Nan and his dentist Byron McKeeby. Name this Iowa native who shows a bespectacled farmer holding a pitchfork in his 1930 painting American Gothic. - ttddGrant DeVolson Wood
Answer the following questions about repeated notes in music. This contemporary minimalist composer⸴ who teamed with the Kronos Quartet on the album Salome Dances for Peace⸴ is best known for the composition⸴ In C⸴ in which a piano plays the highest C key throughout the entire piece⸴ with the other musicians playing a set of phrases in undefined intervals. - ttddTerrance Mitchell ˈˈTerryˈˈ Riley
Answer the following questions about repeated notes in music. The pianist plays a repeated A flat through this piece⸴ except for a brief section in C sharp minor where the repeated note is a B instead. It was composed in 1839 and is the longest of its composer's twenty-four preludes. - ttddRaindrop prelude [or Opus 28⸴ Number 15]
Answer the following questions about repeated notes in music. In the second movement of a piece by this composer⸴ a B flat octave is played constantly by the pianist to imitate a bell that tolls over a scene depicting an executed man. A quote by Henri de Regnier (ren-YAY) is placed at the top of a piano piece by this composer that depicts ˈˈwater games.ˈˈ He wrote a piece for piano that includes ˈˈLe Gibetˈˈ (ZHEE- bay)⸴ which is followed by ˈˈScarboˈˈ⸴ a movement intended to be more difficult than Mily Balakirev's Islamey. In another piece by this composer of Jeux d'eau (zhuh doo) and Gaspard de la Nuit (nwee)⸴ two melodies are passed around the orchestra on top of an ostinato rhythm from the snare drum. Name this late 19th and early 20th century French composer who wrote Bolero. - ttddJoseph-Maurice Ravel
Name these composers who were inspired or used themes by Ludwig van Beethoven. This composer quoted the G-G-G-E flat motif in Beethoven's fifth symphony throughout each movement of his Concord Sonata. He also composed Three Places in New England. - ttddCharles Edward Ives
Name these composers who were inspired or used themes by Ludwig van Beethoven. Hans von Bulow called this composer's first symphony ˈˈBeethoven's Tenthˈˈ⸴ in part because the theme of its final movement resembles that of the Choral Symphony. - ttddJohannes Brahms
Name these composers who were inspired or used themes by Ludwig van Beethoven. The theme from the funeral march of Beethoven's Eroica Symphony is quoted near the end of a piece this composer wrote for 23 strings. A wind machine⸴ thunder machine⸴ and twenty horns are part of the score for a tone poem by this composer that has twenty-two sections. In another tone poem by this man⸴ a horn motif depicts the title trickster. Another piece by this composer of Metamorphosen and An Alpine Symphony features a violin solo in its section ˈˈThe Dance Song.ˈˈ This composer's most famous tone poem ends with the orchestra playing a B and C simultaneously⸴ and that work opens with the trumpet playing a rising C-G-C motif. Name this German composer of Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks and Also Sprach Zarathustra. - ttddRichard Georg Strauss (REEK-hart shtrouse) [prompt on ˈˈStraussˈˈ]
Name the following artists of paintings depicting horses. This Swiss-born painter depicted a horse peering its head through a curtain while an incubus sits on the chest of a sleeping woman in his best known painting⸴ The Nightmare. - ttddHenry Fuseli [or Johann Heinrich Fussli]
Name the following artists of paintings depicting horses. A white horse is stabbed in the chest while its bloodied rider is being pulled off head-first in this artist's painting The Charge of the Mamelukes⸴ which was inspired by a rebellion against French troops. - ttddFrancisco Jose de Goya y Lucientes
Name the following artists of paintings depicting horses. One painting by this artist depicts several horses being held by their handlers behind a rope just before the start of a race in the Italian capital. This artist of Riderless Racers at Rome depicted four horses mid-stride during the title event in his painting The 1821 Derby at Epsom. A ˈˈman suffering from delusions of military rankˈˈ was the subject of one of his paintings from a series of portraits of mental asylum patients that also included Portrait of a Kleptomaniac. In his best known painting⸴ a barely-visible ship named the Argus draws the attention of several people⸴ including a black man who waves a red cloth while standing atop a barrel. The aftermath of an 1816 shipwreck is the subject of the best known work by what early 19th century French artist who painted The Raft of the Medusa? - ttddJean-Louis Andre Theodore Gericault (TAY-oh-door ZHAIR-ih-koh)
Name these 20th century paintings. Two women wearing similar hats sit across a table from one another in this Edward Hopper painting⸴ in which the sign for the title restaurant is partially visible through a window on the right side. - ttddChop Suey
Name these 20th century paintings. The words ˈˈI pressed the fire control...and ahead of me rockets blazed through the skyˈˈ appear in this Roy Lichtenstein painting⸴ which features the title written out directly above an airplane that is experiencing a fiery explosion. - ttddWhaam!
Name these 20th century paintings. The words ˈˈbeautiful world of cottages / of the night and of fieldsˈˈ begin a poem that accompanied this painting at its first exhibition; that poem was written by Paul Eluard. An early version of this painting depicted one figure weeping blood-colored tears⸴ as well as a raised hand holding stalks of grain against the backdrop of a shining sun. The bottom left corner of this painting depicts the palm of a hand with the stigmata. At the top of this painting⸴ one figure holds a lit candle next to a shining light bulb that hangs over the head of a horse. A flower sprouts out of a dismembered arm that holds a shattered sword in this painting⸴ which features a bull standing above a grieving woman holding a dead child. Name this 1937 painting by Pablo Picasso that was created in response to a Nazi bombing of the title Spanish city. - ttddGuernica
Answer the following about Baroque music. Arcangelo Corelli is most famous today for his set of compositions of this type⸴ which includes one nicknamed ˈˈChristmas.ˈˈ They are distinctive for having multiple solo parts. - ttddconcerto grosso [prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following about Baroque music. One of the most influential choral pieces written during the Baroque era was a mass by Johann Sebastian Bach that was written in this key. - ttddB minor [do not accept ˈˈBˈˈ or ˈˈB majorˈˈ or any answer mentioning ˈˈB flatˈˈ]
Answer the following about Baroque music. Scoring changes for this piece over the last few centuries⸴ such as those by Ebenezer Prout and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart⸴ have continually added woodwinds and brass⸴ while in English-speaking countries it was performed with increasingly large choirs. The only two sections of this piece solely for orchestra are the opening ˈˈSinfonyˈˈ and a ˈˈPifaˈˈ that introduces the Annunciation to the Shepherds. A common tradition started by British King George II (the second) is to stand during one section of this composition; that section concludes its second of three parts and includes the lines ˈˈand he shall reign for ever and ever.ˈˈ Name this oratorio by Georg Frideric Handel that contains the ˈˈHallelujahˈˈ chorus. - ttddMessiah⸴ HWV 56
Name these European artists. This early 18th century French painter is best known for depicting several cupids flying above a large group of people walking along the countryside in his painting The Embarkation for Cythera. - ttddJean-Antoine Watteau (wah-TOH)
Name these European artists. This 20th century Swiss-born painter who taught at the Bauhaus (rhymes with ˈˈcow houseˈˈ) is best known for depicting four stick figure birds on a wire in his painting Twittering Machine. - ttddPaul Klee (clay)
Name these European artists. In the bottom right corner of one painting by this artist⸴ several arrows lie on the ground next to the title nude figure⸴ who turns his back toward the viewer while seated on a red cloth. Another work by this artist of Patroclus depicts Cupid and the Three Graces taking away several items belonging to the title god⸴ who is distracted by the title goddess; that work is Mars Being Disarmed by Venus. Pope Pius VII (the seventh) was the subject of a portrait by this artist⸴ who painted a work showing the title figure holding a quill pen in one hand while the other holds a letter featuring the name Charlotte Corday. Another of his works shows three Roman brothers saluting their father⸴ who holds three swords. Name this Neoclassical French artist of The Death of Marat and Oath of the Horatii. - ttddJacques-Louis David (zhahk loo-EE dah-VEED)
Answer the following about compositions that require an unusual set of instruments. This piece in eight movements was written while its composer⸴ Olivier Messiaen (oh-LIV-ee-ay meh-SYAWN)⸴ was imprisoned in a World War 2 POW camp. It was scored for violin⸴ cello⸴ clarinet⸴ and piano. - ttddQuartet for the End of Time [or Quatuor pour la fin du temps]
Answer the following about compositions that require an unusual set of instruments. One of Bela Bartok's most famous compositions is a 1937 work titled Music for Strings⸴ Percussion and [this instrument]. - ttddcelesta
Answer the following about compositions that require an unusual set of instruments. This composer wrote a piece with six movements that all have titles from verses of the Song of Solomon⸴ and that piece features a wordless choir and solo viola despite not being a concerto. He used poems from Leaves of Grass for the text to his first symphony⸴ whose last movement is titled ˈˈThe Explorers.ˈˈ This composer wrote a piece for solo violin based off a George Meredith poem. This composer of Flos Campi wrote a piece scored for two differently-sized orchestras and a string quartet. Name this British composer who wrote A Sea Symphony⸴ The Lark Ascending⸴ and Fantasia on a Theme by Thomas Tallis. - ttddRalph (rafe) Vaughan Williams [prompt on partial answer]
Name these painters active in the 16th century. This German member of the Danube School is best known for depicting a 333 B.C. conflict in the 1529 painting The Battle of Alexander at Issus. - ttddAlbrecht Altdorfer
Name these painters active in the 16th century. This Italian painter is best known for depicting a breastfeeding woman being watched by a man next to a small stream in the 1508 painting The Tempest. - ttddGiorgione [or Giorgio Barbarelli da Castelfranco]
Name these painters active in the 16th century. On the bottom right corner of one painting by this artist⸴ a boy holds a waffle in each hand while several people around him cut and gather firewood from leafless trees. That painting⸴ The Gloomy Day⸴ is part of his Labors of the Months series. Another painting by this artist shows four men with canes following two others ahead of them who have fallen down. This artist of The Blind Leading the Blind depicted desolation caused by an army of skeletons in The Triumph of Death. One painting by this artist depicts part of the title⸴ Biblical structure obscured by a cloud; another of his paintings depicts two figures carrying food on an unhinged door during the title celebration. Name this Flemish painter of The Tower of Babel and The Peasant Wedding. - ttddPieter Brueghel (BROY-gul) the Elder [do not accept ˈˈJan Brueghelˈˈ or ˈˈPieter Brueghel the Youngerˈˈ]
Name these paintings featuring many people. A man prepares to sink a knife into the neck of a nude woman in the bottom right corner of this Eugene Delacroix painting⸴ in which the title figure looks on from a bed while a woman begs at his feet. - ttddDeath of Sardanapalus [or La Mort de Sardanapale]
Name these paintings featuring many people. Two women hold white cloths to their face behind the dog that appears in this Gustave Courbet painting⸴ in which one figure holds a crucifix next to the man who is directing the title event. - ttddA Burial at Ornans [or A Funeral at Ornans or Une interrement a Ornans]
Name these paintings featuring many people. On the right side of this painting⸴ a man writes in a book while standing on one foot and leaning against a wall; that man stands below a statue that depicts Athena holding her shield with the head of Medusa. In the middle of this painting⸴ a bearded old man reads from a piece of paper while sitting on a staircase. This painting is located in a room with three other works by the same artist⸴ two of which are The Parnassus and La Disputa. On its right side⸴ a bent over man uses a compass to draw on a chalkboard next to two other men who hold spheres. The books Timaeus and Nicomachean Ethics are held by the central figures of this fresco⸴ which depicts Averroes standing next to Pythagoras. Plato and Aristotle walk among many ancient philosophers in what Vatican fresco by Raphael? - ttddThe School of Athens [or Scuola di Atene]
Name these musical forms and types of pieces. Johann Sebastian Bach wrote a piece titled the ˈˈArt ofˈˈ this musical form⸴ which uses multiple voices and counterpoint to develop a stated theme. - ttddfugue
Name these musical forms and types of pieces. Pieces of this type are written as exercises in improving specific techniques. Liszt wrote some difficult-to-play ˈˈTranscendentalˈˈ ones. - ttddetudes
Name these musical forms and types of pieces. Camille Saint-Saens' (caa-meel san-sahnss-iz) fifth composition in this genre includes a theme inspired by one he heard while sailing on the Nile River⸴ leading to its nickname of ˈˈEgyptian.ˈˈ Dmitri Shostakovich wrote two pieces in this genre⸴ the first of which includes an extensive solo part for trumpet. Peter Tchaikovsky's first piece of this type⸴ written in B flat minor⸴ opens with a descending fanfare in the horns. Maurice Ravel wrote a piece of this type that opens with a whipcrack. Edvard Grieg's only composition of this type begins with a timpani roll and is in A minor. Ludwig van Beethoven wrote five of these compositions⸴ the last of which is nicknamed ˈˈEmperor.ˈˈ Name this type of piece for solo keyboard instrument and orchestra. - ttddpiano concerto [prompt on partial answer]
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the mixing of colors. Each correct response will require two answers. What two colors are mixed to produce green? - ttddBlue AND Yellow (Do not give away which one is correct if wrong)
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the mixing of colors. Each correct response will require two answers. What two colors are mixed to produce orange? - ttddRed AND Yellow (Do not give away which one is correct if wrong)
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the mixing of colors. Each correct response will require two answers. What two colors are mixed to produce purple? - ttddRed AND Blue (Do not give away which one is correct if wrong)
Fine Arts: Identify these artists that you might mistake for members of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. What artist is known for his drawing The Vitruvian Man and his painting of The Last Supper? - ttddLeonardo da Vinci
Fine Arts: Identify these artists that you might mistake for members of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. What artist is known for his paintings The Mond Crucifixion and The School of Athens? - ttddRaphael
Fine Arts: Identify these artists that you might mistake for members of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. What artist who painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel is known for his marble sculptures of the Pieta and David? - ttddMichelangelo
Fine Arts: Identify these European painters. What man was known for his cubist paintings, including Guernica which depicts the bombing of the namesake Spanish town? - ttddPablo Picasso
Fine Arts: Identify these European painters. What French impressionist painter is best known for his paintings of ballerinas and race horses? - ttddEdgar Degas
Fine Arts: Identify these European painters. What Italian artist is best known for his similarly themed paintings Primavera and The Birth of Venus? - ttddSandro Botticelli
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings. The center of this painting contains what appears to be half of a face, while melting clocks are strewn about the landscape in what Salvador Dali work? - ttddThe Persistence of Memory
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings. A flame-like cypress tree stands on the right of this painting and a large crescent moon hangs in the top left. Painted from a window in a sanatorium in Saint Remy, identify this Vincent Van Gogh painting. - ttddStarry Night
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings. Two candlesticks sit on either side of a clock in front of a mirror as a train emerges from a fireplace in what painting by Rene Magritte? - ttddTime Transfixed
Fine Arts: Identify the following compositions of Ludwig van Beethoven. What symphony features the poem ''Ode to Joy'' by Friedrich Schiller set to music in its final movement? - ttddSymphony No. 9 in D Minor [or Beethoven's 9th or the Choral Symphony or Opus No. 125]
Fine Arts: Identify the following compositions of Ludwig van Beethoven. What work, Beethoven's only opera, centers on Leonore donning the title fake identity to save her husband Florestan from prison? - ttddFidelio [or Opus No. 72]
Fine Arts: Identify the following compositions of Ludwig van Beethoven. This Beethoven work contains the adagio sostenuto and presto agitato movements. Its nickname derives from its sound being likened to seeing the title phenomenon on Lake Lucerne. - ttddPiano Sonata No. 14 [or the Moonlight Sonata or Opus No. 27]
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. What sculptor created the Baldacchino at St. Peter's Basilica in addition to a marble sculpture of Apollo and Daphne? - ttddGian Lorenzo Bernini
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. Portraits of the Cornaro family surround what sculpture featuring a woman from Avila looking up at an angel and rays of light? - ttddThe Ecstasy of St. Teresa [accept clear knowledge equivalents]
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. What sculpture located in the Piazza Navona of Rome that features the Ganges, Rio de la Plata, Nile, and Danube Rivers. - ttddThe Fountain of Four Rivers (Accept Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi)
Fine Arts: Rose Selavy was the alter ego of what readymade artist, known for his painting L.H.O.O.Q, which placed a mustache on the Mona Lisa? - ttddMarcel Duchamp
Fine Arts: What Duchamp readymade is simply an upside down urinal inscribed with the words ''R. Mutt''? - ttddFountain
Fine Arts: This artist depicted a teary-eyed woman sinking into the ocean, exclaiming that she would rather ''drown than call Brad for help''. Identify this American pop artist of Drowning Girl best known for depicting comic book images like Whaam! - ttddRoy Lichtenstein
Fine Arts: Name the following artists given their works. One work by this sculptor sits between The Table of Silence and The Kiss Gate, and also appears on the coat of arms of his hometown, Târgu Jiu. Identify this sculptor of The Endless Column. - ttddConstantin Brancusi
Fine Arts: Name the following artists given their works. Young boys are depicted in this artist's The Swimming Hole, and the Schuylkill River is shown in his Max Schmitt in a Single Scull. Identify this artist who painted a woman covering her face while watching the central action in The Gross Clinic. - ttddThomas Eakins
Fine Arts: Name the following artists given their works. An eye is seen being sliced by a knife in a film he co-created with Luis Bunuel titled An Andalusian Dog. This artist of Swans Reflecting Elephants included a ''White Monster'' in a painting with the Cliff of Catalonia in the top right hand corner. Identify this artist of The Persistence of Memory. - ttddSalvador Dali
Fine Arts: Identify the following cities where these buildings are located. Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim Museum and the Flatiron Building are in what American city? - ttddNew York City
Fine Arts: Identify the following cities where these buildings are located. Mies van der Rohe's Lake Shore Drive Apartments and the Willis Tower are in what American city? - ttddChicago
Fine Arts: Identify the following cities where these buildings are located. Christopher Wren's St. Paul's Cathedral and the Greenwich Observatory are in what European capital? - ttddLondon, England
Fine Arts: Identify the following Giacomo Puccini operas. A prince sings 'Nessun Dorma' in this opera as a princess tries to discover his real name, which is said to be ''love'' by a slave named Liu. Identify this opera in which Calaf tries to win the hand of the title princess. - ttddTurandot
Fine Arts: Identify the following Giacomo Puccini operas. In this opera, the artist Mario Cavaradossi sings the aria 'Recondita Armonia' before Angelotti warns him Baron Scarpia is pursuing him. In order to save her love, the title singer sleeps with Scarpia before eventually stabbing him and surrounding his body with candles. - ttddTosca
Fine Arts: Identify the following Giacomo Puccini operas. 'Un Bel Di' is sung by a woman describing a day when her love, Lieutenant Pinkerton, will return to her in what opera, that also features a man named Sharpless who reads a letter to Cio-Cio San, the title figure? - ttddMadame Butterfly
Fine Arts: Identify these composers. This man used a flute and a harp to imitate a rocking chair in one composition. Identify this composer of Vanessa and Adagio for Strings. - ttddSamuel Barber
Fine Arts: Identify these composers. The Tabor, Blahnik, and Moldav are rivers depicted in this composer's Ma Vlast. Identify this composer who wrote about Vasek, the son of Krusina and Ludmil, in his The Bartered Bride. - ttddBedrich Smetana
Fine Arts: Identify these composers. Fortune and Virtue argue in one work by this composer about Nero's court, while in another work, a musician tries to save his wife from the underworld. Identify this composer of The Coronation of Poppea and L'Orfeo. - ttddClaudio Monteverdi
Fine Arts: Name the following members of the group of composers known as the ''Mighty Five.'' What member is known for his Capriccio Espagnol and the opera The Tale of Tsar Saltan? - ttddNikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
Fine Arts: Name the following members of the group of composers known as the ''Mighty Five.'' What member is known for the opera Prince Igor and In the Steppes of Central Asia? - ttddAlexander Borodin
Fine Arts: Name the following members of the group of composers known as the ''Mighty Five.'' What Mighty Five member is known for works such as Boris Godunov and Night on Bald Mountain? - ttddModest Mussorgsky
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals. Anna Leonowens travels to Siam to teach English to the royal family in what Rodgers and Hammerstein musical that features the song ''Shall We Dance''? - ttddThe King and I
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals. Team A:Mrs. Lovett sings ''The Worst Pies in London'' in what musical about a former prisoner who returns to England to exact revenge on the judge who sent him away? - ttddSweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals. Sky Masterson sings ''Luck be a Lady'' in what musical about an underground craps game being run by Nathan Detroit? - ttddGuys and Dolls
Fine Arts: Name these paintings that take place at ''night''. The only woman in this painting wears a red dress while the three men in this painting have hats on. Identify this Edward Hopper painting that advertises for five cent Phillies cigars. - ttddNighthawks
Fine Arts: Name these paintings that take place at ''night''. A little girl with a dead chicken in her belt is illuminated in this piece. Identify this painting by Rembrandt that is also called The Shooting Company of Frans Banning Cocq. - ttddThe Night Watch
Fine Arts: Name these paintings that take place at ''night''. This painting was supposedly painted as the artist looked out of the window of his sanatorium. Name this painting by Vincent Van Gogh that includes a large cypress tree in the front right and a yin yang symbol in the sky. - ttddStarry Night
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a famous painting. A winding road is visible in the background of this painting. The main figure has no eyebrows and an enigmatic smile. Identify this portrait which is alternatively called La Gioconda. - ttddMona Lisa
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a famous painting. What artist of The Vitruvian Man and Lady with an Ermine painted the Mona Lisa? - ttddLeonardo da Vinci
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a famous painting. This artist was questioned following the theft of the Mona Lisa in 1911. Identify this Spanish artist of Boy with a Pipe and Guernica. - ttddPablo Picasso
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists who have painted versions of the Last Supper. Bartholomew, James, and Andrew stand on the left of this artist's most famous version of The Last Supper, which is a mural in Milan. - ttddLeonardo Da Vinci
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists who have painted versions of the Last Supper. This surrealist artist's version of the scene is called Sacrament of the Last Supper and a transparent torso is visible at the top. He is more famous for his The Persistence of Memory. - ttddSalvador Dali
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists who have painted versions of the Last Supper. What artist's Last Supper shows a woman doing dishes and is painted from a diagonal angle? - ttddTintoretto
Fine Arts: Identify the following sculptures. What Constantin Brancusi work meant to depict the ''essence of flight'' was taxed as a manufactured metal object by US customs due to its resemblance to a helicopter blade? - ttddBird in Space
Fine Arts: Identify the following sculptures. What Auguste Rodin sculpture shows the embracing couple Paolo and Francesca from Dante's Inferno? - ttddThe Kiss
Fine Arts: Identify the following sculptures. The signature R. Mutt is written on what ready-made sculpture by Marcel Duchamp, which is essentially just an upside-down urinal? - ttddFountain
Fine Arts: Given the number of sharps or flats and its relative minor, name the major key. This key doesn't have any sharps or flats and its relative minor key is A. - ttddC Major
Fine Arts: Given the number of sharps or flats and its relative minor, name the major key. This key has three sharps; C sharp, F sharp, and G sharp. Its relative minor key is F sharp. - ttddA Major
Fine Arts: Given the number of sharps or flats and its relative minor, name the major key. This key has five sharps; F sharp, C sharp, G sharp, D sharp, and A sharp. Its relative minor key is G sharp. - ttddB Major
Fine Arts: Italians like to compose operas. Let's name a few. Figaro sings the aria "Largo al Factotum" in what opera by Gioachino Rossini? - ttddThe Barber of Seville
Fine Arts: Italians like to compose operas. Let's name a few. In what other Rossini opera is the title character asked to shoot an apple off the head of his son Jemmy at the request of the evil governor Gesler? - ttddWilliam Tell
Fine Arts: Italians like to compose operas. Let's name a few. The title character sings the "Rose of Heaven" aria and journeys to the underworld to retrieve his wife Eurydice in what Claudio Monteverdi opera that is the oldest opera still in the repertory? - ttddL'orfeo
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the work of Pyotr Tchaikovsky. The Waltz of the Flowers and The Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy are musical works in what Tchaikovsky ballet generally staged around Christmas? - ttddThe Nutcracker
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the work of Pyotr Tchaikovsky. The evil sorcerer Von Rothbart casts a spell on Odette in what Tchaikovsky ballet that also features Prince Siegfried? - ttddSwan Lake
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the work of Pyotr Tchaikovsky. This most often performed of Tchaikovsky's works ends with the sound of cannon fire. Identify this overture written to commemorate Russia's defeat of Napoleon's army in the namesake year. - ttdd1812 Overture
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about French composer Camille Saint-Saens. Saint-Saens is best known for composing what 14 movement musical suite featuring movements entitled The Swan, Kangaroos, and The Elephant? - ttddCarnival of the Animals
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about French composer Camille Saint-Saens. Saint-Saens borrowed the movement "Fossils" from Carnival of the Animals from what earlier composition in which he used a xylophone to represent the rattling of bones? - ttddDanse Macabre
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about French composer Camille Saint-Saens. The only opera by Saint-Saens to be performed regularly during his lifetime was what work based on a story from Chapter 16 of the Book of Judges that tells the story of a man whose power rests in his long hair? - ttddSamson and Delilah
Fine Arts: Identify these jazz musicians. What jazz trumpeter and big band leader included "Flamenco Sketches" and "Freddie Freeloader" on his album Kind of Blue? - ttddMiles Davis
Fine Arts: Identify these jazz musicians. What other jazz trumpeter and big band leader was known for his bent trumpet and for co-founding bebop with Charlie Parker? - ttddDizzy Gillespie
Fine Arts: Identify these jazz musicians. This man became a popular scat singer after the release of his song "Heebie Jeebies". Identify this jazz trumpeter who was nicknamed "Satchmo" and who is famous for the songs "Hello Dolly" and "What a Wonderful World". - ttddLouis Armstrong
Fine Arts: Identify these architectural creations. Eleanor Roosevelt arranged for Marian Anderson to give a concert on the steps of what Washington DC memorial that was designed by Daniel Chester French? - ttddLincoln Memorial
Fine Arts: Identify these architectural creations. Eero Saarinen designed what 630 foot tall steel structure that stands over the Jefferson Expansion Memorial overlooking the Mississippi River? - ttddGateway Arch (prompt on "St. Louis" arch)
Fine Arts: Identify these architectural creations. This building overlooks Port Jackson on Bennelong Point and is known for its overlapping sail-like shells. Identify this music venue designed by Jorn Utzon in a major Australian city. - ttddSydney Opera House
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a composer and his works. The songs "I Feel Pretty", "America" and "Maria" appear in what musical that is a modern day retelling of Romeo and Juliet? - ttddWest Side Story
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a composer and his works. The music to West Side Story was composed by what man who also created the ballet Fancy Free and the opera Trouble in Tahiti? - ttddLeonard Bernstein
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a composer and his works. Songs in this Bernstein musical include "Take Care of this House" and "Rehearse". Identify this musical about Presidents from 1800-1900 that is named for the address of the White House. - ttdd1600 Pennsylvania Avenue
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals. The songs "Oh What a Beautiful Morning" and "The Surrey with the Fringe on Top" appear in what Rodgers and Hammerstein musical? - ttddOklahoma
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals. The songs "I'm in Love with a Wonderful Guy" and "Some Enchanted Evening" appear in what Rodgers and Hammerstein musical? - ttddSouth Pacific
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals. This musical was inspired by a biography by Ron Chernow and a book by Lin-Manuel Miranda. Featuring the songs "Ten Duel Commandments" and "Aaron Burr, Sir", identify this 2015 hip-hop musical about our nation's first Secretary of the Treasury. - ttddHamilton
Fine Arts: Identify these ballets. "The Waltz of the Flowers" and "The Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy" are songs that appear in what Pyotr Tchaikovsky ballet? - ttddThe Nutcracker
Fine Arts: Identify these ballets. "Gavotte", "The Fairy Godmother" and "Arrival at the Ball" are songs that appear in what Sergei Prokofiev ballet? - ttddCinderella
Fine Arts: Identify these ballets. A riot broke out at the premiere of this ballet that begins with a very high solo for the bassoon. Vaslav Nijinsky choreographed this ballet, that includes movements entitled "The Adoration of the Earth" and the "Sacrificial Dance". Identify this Igor Stravinsky ballet about the sacrifice of a pagan girl in Russia. - ttddThe Rite of Spring
Fine Arts: Identify these English artists. What English artist of Mr. and Mrs. Andrews depicted Jonathan Buttall in his painting The Blue Boy? - ttddThomas Gainsborough
Fine Arts: Identify these English artists. What English artist known for his depictions of Salisbury Cathedral depicted the cottage of Willy Lott in his painting The Hay Wain? - ttddJohn Constable
Fine Arts: Identify these English artists. This artist depicted an animal torturer named Tom Nero in his series of paintings entitled Four Stages of Cruelty. He is best known for two series of paintings depicting Sarah Young and Tom Rakewell in the city of London. Identify this English artist of The Harlot's Progress and The Rake's Progress. - ttddWilliam Hogarth
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a Belgian artist. What artist depicted a pipe with the text "this is not a pipe" in his painting The Treachery of Images? - ttddRene Magritte
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a Belgian artist. Magritte is associated with what art movement also associated with Salvador Dali? - ttddSurrealism
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a Belgian artist. The central image of this painting was also included in Magritte's Not to be Reproduced. A clock in this painting reads 12:44 and only one of two candlesticks in this painting is reflected in a mirror. Identify this surrealist painting by Magritte that depicts a train emerging from a fireplace. - ttddTime Transfixed
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. What Dutch artist painted a portrait of his bedroom in the painting Bedroom in Arles? - ttddVincent van Gogh
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. It was at van Gogh's house in Arles that he cut off a piece of his ear after an argument with what other artist of Two Tahitian Women? - ttddPaul Gauguin
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. Late in his life, this medical professional cared for van Gogh following his release from an asylum. One painting of this man depicts two yellow books on a table next to a foxglove plant. Identify this doctor who cared for van Gogh and was depicted in two "portraits" near the end of van Gogh's life. - ttddDoctor Paul Gachet
Fine Arts: Identify these jazz musicians. What jazz trombonist who died during World War II is best known for his songs "In the Mood" and "Moonlight Serenade"? - ttddGlenn Miller
Fine Arts: Identify these jazz musicians. "God Bless the Child" was a hit song by what jazz vocalist who was nicknamed "Lady Day"? - ttddBillie Holiday
Fine Arts: Identify these jazz musicians. One famous album by this jazz musician was recorded at the 1956 Newport Music Festival. This composer's band played at the Cotton Club, and he frequently collaborated with Billy Strayhorn. Identify this jazz musician and big band leader behind the songs "Satin Doll", "Mood Indigo" and "Take the A Train". - ttddDuke Ellington
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about awards for excellence in the fine arts. The Antoinette Perry Award for Excellence in Theater is the full name of award given annually for excellence on Broadway? - ttddTony Awards
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about awards for excellence in the fine arts. What name is given to the award presented annually for excellence in television programming? - ttddEmmy Awards
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about awards for excellence in the fine arts. Robert Lopez is the most recent person to obtain what designation, given to someone who has won an Emmy, a Tony, a Grammy and an Oscar? - ttddEGOT winner
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a composer and his works. What German romantic composer composed Songs without Words, and the Scottish and Italian symphonies? - ttddFelix Mendelssohn
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a composer and his works. A visit to Fingal's Cave in Scotland inspired what Mendelssohn concert overture? - ttddHebrides Overture
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about a composer and his works. Act II of this composition opens with the song "Ye Spotted Snakes" while Act III opens with a march for the entrance of the Mechanicals. A famous "wedding march" plays between Acts IV and V in what Mendelssohn composition written as incidental music to a Shakespearean play. - ttddA Midsummer Night's Dream
Fine Arts: Identify these famous sculptures. The Louvre currently houses what statue of the Roman goddess of love that is missing both arms? - ttddVenus de Milo
Fine Arts: Identify these famous sculptures. Meant to depict the "essence of flight", what series of sculptures by Constantin Brancusi were taxed by the US government upon being brought to New York for an art show since customs officials believed them to be "not art"? - ttddBird in Space
Fine Arts: Identify these famous sculptures. The sculptor of this work was upset that it was displayed on a pedestal as viewers can not see the anguish in the eyes of its central figures. This sculpture depicts a scene from the Hundred Years' War in which the title group surrenders to the army of Edward III. Identify this sculpture of six men with nooses around their necks by Auguste Rodin. - ttddThe Burghers of Calais
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about pop art. What American pop artist is known for his drawings of Campbell's Soup Cans and a silkscreen of Marilyn Monroe? - ttddAndy Warhol
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about pop art. What pop artist is known for his drawings of comic book scenes, including Look Mickey! and Whaam! - ttddRoy Lichtenstein
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about pop art. This artist included a pair of lips in place of eyes in his sculpture entitled The Critic Sees. This artist used encaustic to create several works that used paint up to five inches thick. Identify this pop artist who is best known for paintings of targets and American flags. - ttddJasper Johns
Fine Arts: Identify the sport being depicted in each of the following paintings. George Bellows' painting Stag at Sharkeys. - ttddBoxing
Fine Arts: Identify the sport being depicted in each of the following paintings. A famous Thomas Eakins painting depicting Max Schmitt. - ttddBoating OR Rowing or similar equivalents
Fine Arts: Identify the sport being depicted in each of the following paintings. Theodore Gericault's The Derby at Epsom and Edouard Manet's The Races at Longchamps. - ttddHorse Racing (prompt on racing alone)
Fine Arts: Identify these American composers. What American composer used a James Agee work as the basis for his "Knoxville: Summer of 1915" and won a Pulitzer Prize for his opera, Vanessa? - ttddSamuel Barber
Fine Arts: Identify these American composers. What minimalist composer who utilized the "prepared piano" is best known for a piece in which the audience is asked to remain silent for the title length of time, 4 minutes and 33 seconds? - ttddJohn Cage
Fine Arts: Identify these American composers. This composer was inspired by the Manhattan Project to write the opera Doctor Atomic and he memorialized the September 11th attacks in his piece "On the Transmigration of Souls." Identify this minimalist composer who wrote about a presidential visit to Asia in Nixon in China and who shared his name with two US Presidents. - ttddJohn (Coolidge) Adams
Fine Arts: A group of diners enjoy a meal at the Maison Fournaise in Luncheon of the Boating Party, an impressionist work by what French artist? - ttddPierre Auguste Renoir
Fine Arts: A peasant family gathers around the table for the title meal in The Potato Eaters, a work by what Dutch artist? - ttddVincent van Gogh
Fine Arts: In the background of this painting, a girl wearing pink leans over to pick something up off of the ground. A spilled picnic basket is visible in the front left corner of this painting next to what was at its creation a scandalous depiction of two men and one woman. Identify this impressionist painting by Edouard Manet. - ttddLuncheon on the Grass
Fine Arts: Identify these art movements. With what artistic movement is Claude Monet most-closely associated? - ttddImpressionism or Impressionist
Fine Arts: Identify these art movements. With what artistic movement is Salvador Dali most-closely associated? - ttddSurrealism or Surrealist
Fine Arts: Identify these art movements. With what artistic movement are both Georges Braque (brock) and Pablo Picasso most-closely associated? - ttddCubism or Cubist
Fine Arts: Name these depictions of death. In the most famous version of this work, a man is slouched over in his bathtub. Identify this painting by Jacques Louis David that shows a French Revolutionary leader in the aftermath of a stabbing. - ttddThe Death of Marat
Fine Arts: Name these depictions of death. Many people are in agony around the central figure of this painting, including his protégé Plato. Identify this other Jacques Louis David painting which depicts the title philosophical figure about to drink a cup of hemlock. - ttddThe Death of Socrates
Fine Arts: Name these depictions of death. This piece set during the French and Indian War shows a Native American kneeling by the title figure. Identify this Benjamin West painting that shows the title figure dying after being wounded at the Battle of Quebec. - ttddThe Death of General Wolfe
Fine Arts: Identify these English composers. What English composer wrote Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra? - ttddBenjamin Britten
Fine Arts: Identify these English composers. What English composer wrote Pomp and Circumstance? - ttddSir Edward Elgar
Fine Arts: Identify these English composers. What English composer wrote The Planets? - ttddGustav Holst
Fine Arts: Name these musical instruments. What brass instrument that is coiled in shape is used to symbolize the wolf in Prokofiev's work "Peter and the Wolf"? - ttddFrench horn
Fine Arts: Name these musical instruments. The D flat variety of what tiny, high-pitched woodwind instrument was used for a famous solo in the march "Stars and Stripes Forever"? - ttddpiccolo
Fine Arts: Name these musical instruments. The longest side of what roughly triangular instrument is known as the column? This instrument most commonly features 47 strings. - ttddharp
Fine Arts: Identify these terms from music theory. What term is given to the group of sharps and flats at the beginning of a musical staff after the clef that denotes which notes are to be played higher or lower than the natural? - ttddKey Signature
Fine Arts: Identify these terms from music theory. What term is defined as a gradual increase in loudness of a piece of music? - ttddCrescendo
Fine Arts: Identify these terms from music theory. What form of articulation indicates is used to indicate a note of shortened duration? - ttddStaccato
Fine Arts: Identify the dance given a description. After watching a dog chase its tail, Frederic Chopin wrote a "Minute" version of what dance in ¾ time? - ttddWaltz
Fine Arts: Identify the dance given a description. Originating in Argentina and Uruguay is what dance in 2/4 time that it purportedly takes two to perform? - ttddTango
Fine Arts: Identify the dance given a description. Often featuring fans or castanets is what Spanish form of dance that places an emphasis on quick arm, feet, and wrist movements as opposed to hip motions? - ttddFlamenco
Fine Arts: Name the famous art museum given a description. What art museum located on the Seine features an iconic glass pyramid designed by IM Pei? - ttddThe Louvre
Fine Arts: Name the famous art museum given a description. What largest art museum in the United States is found in New York City where its rooftop garden offers spectacular views of Manhattan and Central Park? - ttddThe Met or Metropolitan Museum of Art
Fine Arts: Name the famous art museum given a description. What cylindrical art museum designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in New York City has a sister museum with the same name designed by Frank Gehry found in Bilbao, Spain? - ttddThe Guggenheim
Fine Arts: Name the artist. Known for her many depictions of flowers is what painter of Cow Skull who was the wife of Alfred Stieglitz? - ttddGeorgia O'Keefe
Fine Arts: Name the artist. Known for his many murals such as "Man at the Crossroads" is what husband of Frida Kahlo? - ttddDiego Rivera
Fine Arts: Name the artist. Known for his "action painting" is what painter of Full Fathom Five and husband of Lee Krasner? - ttddJackson Pollock
Fine Arts: Identify these American composers. Rodeo and Appalachian Spring were composed by what American composer? - ttddAaron Copland
Fine Arts: Identify these American composers. What composer of Stars and Stripes Forever was known as the "March King"? - ttddJohn Philip Sousa
Fine Arts: Identify these American composers. Random charts generated from the I Ching were integrated into one of this man's works, and he pioneered placing everyday items into an instrument, which has become known as prepared piano. Identify this minimalist composer of Four Minutes and Thirty-Three Seconds. - ttddJohn Cage
Fine Arts: Given a list of works, name the architect who designed them. John Hancock Tower, Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland - ttddI.M. Pei
Fine Arts: Given a list of works, name the architect who designed them. The main terminal at Dulles International Airport, the Gateway Arch - ttddEero Saarinen
Fine Arts: Given a list of works, name the architect who designed them. Stone Mountain, Mount Rushmore - ttddGutzon Borglum
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the fusion of art and history. A portrait of what oft-married Tudor king was painted by Hans Holbein the Younger though the work was lost in a fire in 1698? - ttddHenry VIII
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the fusion of art and history. Jacques Louis David depicted this political figure known mostly for his military endeavors "in His Study" where he is shown with one hand tucked in his coat. - ttddNapoleon I (Bonaparte)
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the fusion of art and history. Albrecht Altdorfer painted this Macedonian leader on his horse Bucephalus in his most famous work of art depicting a 333 BC battle. - ttddAlexander the Great (accept Alexander the III or Alexander of Macedon)
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the work of American architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Wright is best known for designing what residence located in southwestern Pennsylvania that was designed for Pittsburgh businessman Edgar Kaufman? - ttddFallingwater
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the work of American architect Frank Lloyd Wright. Wright is also known for designing the Imperial Hotel in what city that survived a massive 1923 earthquake as well as bomb damage during World War II? - ttddTokyo
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about the work of American architect Frank Lloyd Wright. This cylindrical building was designed by Wright in 1959 and includes a ramp leading from the ground floor to the ceiling skylight. Sharing its name with a Frank Gehry-designed structure in Bilbao, Spain, identify this New York City art museum. - ttddGuggenheim Museum
Fine Arts: Identify these 19th century paintings. A woman named Marianne holds the French tricolor flag in what painting set during the July Revolution of 1830 that was painted by Eugene Delacroix? - ttddLiberty Leading the People
Fine Arts: Identify these 19th century paintings. A nude woman sits on a blanket next to two fully clothed men in what impressionist oil painting by Edouard Manet? - ttddLuncheon on the Grass
Fine Arts: Identify these 19th century paintings. A bend in the Connecticut River is seen as a thunderstorm approaches from the left in what painting by Hudson River School artist Thomas Cole? - ttddThe Oxbow
Fine Arts: Given a major scale, identify its relative minor. For instance, if I would say A Major, you would say F Sharp Minor. G Major - ttddE Minor
Fine Arts: Given a major scale, identify its relative minor. For instance, if I would say A Major, you would say F Sharp Minor. D Major - ttddB Minor
Fine Arts: Given a major scale, identify its relative minor. For instance, if I would say A Major, you would say F Sharp Minor. E Major - ttddC Sharp Minor
Fine Arts: Name the composer given a list of works. The "Farewell" Symphony and the "Surprise" Symphony - ttddJoseph Haydn
Fine Arts: Name the composer given a list of works. Music for the Royal Fireworks and Water Music - ttddGeorge Handel
Fine Arts: Name the composer given a list of works. The Hebrides Overture and a famous Wedding March as a part of his overture to A Midsummer Night's Dream - ttddFelix Mendelssohn
Fine Arts: Identify these musical instruments. What woodwind instrument plays the opening glissando at the beginning of Rhapsody in Blue and was famously played by Benny Goodman? - ttddClarinet
Fine Arts: Identify these musical instruments. What woodwind instrument that comes in alto, tenor, and baritone versions was famously played by Kenny G? - ttddSaxophone
Fine Arts: Identify these musical instruments. George Friedrich Handel introduced the Queen of Sheba in a concerto for this instrument that also introduced the duck in Peter and the Wolf. Identify this double reed woodwind instrument that is used to tune a modern orchestra. - ttddOboe
Fine Arts: Identify these Renaissance artists from their works. What Renaissance artist painted The School of Athens and The Mond Crucifixion? - ttddRaphael
Fine Arts: Identify these Renaissance artists from their works. What Renaissance sculptor created the equestrian statue of Gattamelata as well as the bronze David? - ttddDonatello
Fine Arts: Identify these Renaissance artists from their works. What late Renaissance sculptor who is credited with creating the Baroque style is known for works such as Apollo and Daphne and The Ecstasy of St. Teresa? - ttddGian Lorenzo Bernini
Fine Arts: Given a short description name the following operas. In what Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart opera does Tamino attempt to rescue Pamina with the help of the bird catcher Papageno? - ttddThe Magic Flute
Fine Arts: Given a short description name the following operas. In what Georges Bizet opera does the toreador Escamillo and Don Jose both love the title woman? - ttddCarmen
Fine Arts: Given a short description name the following operas. In this Giacomo Puccini opera set in Japan the naval officer Pinkerton marries a 15 year old girl named Cio Cio San who later commits hara-kiri. - ttddMadama Butterfly or Madame Butterfly
Fine Arts: Identify the country given clues related to classical music originating there. Ottorino Respighi wrote of the "Pines" and "Fountains" of the capital of what country which is also home to composers like Vincenzo Bellini and Claudio Monteverdi? - ttddItaly
Fine Arts: Identify the country given clues related to classical music originating there. Jean Sibelius wrote the unofficial national anthem of what Scandinavian country? - ttddFinland
Fine Arts: Identify the country given clues related to classical music originating there. Bela Bartok and Franz Liszt are natives of what country that provides the title of Liszt's namesake "Rhapsodies". - ttddHungary
Fine Arts: What jazz pianist and Big Band leader was known for the songs "One O'Clock Jump" and "April in Paris"? - ttddCount Basie
Fine Arts: What jazz pianist and band leader is known for the songs "Watermelon Man", "Chameleon" and "Cantaloupe Island"? - ttddHerbie Hancock
Fine Arts: A meeting between Teddy Roosevelt and Booker T. Washington inspired this composer to write A Guest of Honor. This composer of the opera Treemonisha [Treemon-isha] had several of his songs featuring in the movie The Sting, including "The Entertainer". Identify this ragtime composer best known for the "Maple Leaf Rag". - ttddScott Joplin
Fine Arts: Identify these paintings. Georges de Selve and Jean de Dinteville rest their arms on a table in a room surrounded by scientific instruments in what painting by Hans Holbein the Younger? - ttddThe Ambassadors
Fine Arts: Identify these paintings. The castle of San Servando is visible in what landscape painting by El Greco that is notable for having rearranged the locations of buildings in the title town? - ttddView of Toledo
Fine Arts: Identify these paintings. The background of this painting features Morro Castle, which sits alongside Havana Harbor. One man in this painting looks backwards through the legs of another man, while a black man in this painting throws a rope to the title figure. Two men reach into the water to rescue a fourteen year old boy from an attack in what painting by John Singleton Copley? - ttddWatson and the Shark
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about Russian composers. What Russian composer and member of "The Five" wrote Scheherazade [shuh-her-uh-zah-duh] and The Russian Easter Festival Overture? - ttddNikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about Russian composers. What other member of "The Five" wrote "Night on Bald Mountain" and Pictures at an Exhibition? - ttddModest Mussorgsky
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about Russian composers. This composer was often at odds with "The Five" due to his desire to not write music that was strictly Russian. This composer used a Lord Byron poem as the basis for his Manfred Symphony and included Princess Aurora in his ballet The Sleeping Beauty. Identify this Russian composer better known for Swan Lake and The Nutcracker. - ttddPyotr Tchaikovsky
Fine Arts: Identify these composers with something in common. What German composer created the works Carnaval, Scenes from Childhood, and the Rhenish Symphony? - ttddRobert Schumann
Fine Arts: Identify these composers with something in common. What German composer of "Gretchen at the Spinning Wheel" composed the Trout Quintet and the Unfinished Symphony? - ttddFranz Schubert
Fine Arts: Identify these composers with something in common. This composer was inspired by a Richard Dehmel poem to write a piece featuring an inverted ninth chord entitled Transfigured Night and he set 21 poems by Albert Giraud for his Pierrot Lunaire [pee-uh-roh loo-nair]. Identify this Austrian composer and leader of the Second Viennese School who developed the "twelve tone technique". - ttddArnold Schoenberg
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. The title goddess emerges from the sea atop a seashell in what painting that also features Chloris and Zephyr? - ttddThe Birth of Venus
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. The Birth of Venus was painted by what artist who depicted similar figures in his painting Primavera? - ttddSandro Botticelli
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about an artist and his works. Pieter Brueghel the Elder depicted this scene in a winter landscape while Hieronymus Bosch painted a triptych [trip-tik] of this scene that included Joseph holding diapers. Botticelli's version of this scene is housed in the Uffizi Gallery and depicts the artist himself among the crowd. Identify this Biblical scene in which people present frankincense and myrrh to the baby Jesus. - ttddThe Adoration of the Magi
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals often performed by high schools. "Luck Be a Lady" and "A Bushel and a Peck" are songs from what musical about Nathan Detroit and the gambler Sky Masterson? - ttddGuys and Dolls
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals often performed by high schools. "Big, Bright Beautiful World" and "Donkey Pot Pie" are songs from what musical based on a Dreamworks film? - ttddShrek: The Musical
Fine Arts: Identify these musicals often performed by high schools. One character in this musical sings the song "Iowa Stubborn" after arriving in River City. This Meredith Wilson musical is about a con man named Harold Hill who arrives in Iowa to swindle townspeople out of money for musical instruments. Identify this musical that features the song "Seventy-Six Trombones". - ttddThe Music Man
Fine Arts: Identify the Renaissance artist from a list of works. The Calling of St. Matthew, Pieta, a marble David. - ttddMichelangelo
Fine Arts: Identify the Renaissance artist from a list of works. The Mond Crucifixion, the Sistine Madonna, The School of Athens. - ttddRaphael
Fine Arts: Identify the Renaissance artist from a list of works. This artist sculpted an equestrian statue of Erasmo of Narni entitled Gattamelata. His sculpture Zuccone is said to resemble Harry Potter's Voldemort, while his best known work depicts the title figure leaning on his sword. Identity this Renaissance artist of the bronze David. - ttddDonatello
Fine Arts: Identify these art movements. Georges Seurat was a member of what art movement in which small dots of color are used to create an image? - ttddPointillism
Fine Arts: Identify these art movements. Thomas Cole and Asher Durand are members of what art movement that focused on landscape scenes and is named for a geographic feature in New York? - ttddHudson River School
Fine Arts: Identify these art movements. One member of this art movement painted Ajax, a picture of a large bull in a field. Besides John Steuart Curry, another member of this movement painted People of Chilmark and was named Thomas Hart Benton. The best known member of this school painted a farmer holding a pitchfork in American Gothic. Identify this midwestern art school exemplified by Grant Wood. - ttddRegionalism
Fine Arts: Identify the following "colorful" works of music. This piece was based on a poem by Karl Beck. Identify this Johann Strauss the Younger work often heard around New Year's Eve and named for a European waterway. - ttddThe Blue Danube
Fine Arts: Identify the following "colorful" works of music. This piece was written for Paul Whiteman's band and premiered at Aeolian Hall. Identify this George Gershwin piece that begins with a clarinet glissando. - ttddRhapsody in Blue
Fine Arts: Identify the following "colorful" works of music. This opera begins in an all dark room. However, several different colors are associated with the seven different rooms the central characters travel into. The sixth door in this work reveals a "Lake of Tears" and the seventh door reveals three ex-wives. Identify this Bela Bartok opera that sees Judith explore the title estate. - ttddDuke Bluebeard's Castle
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical compositions with something in common. In The Tale of Tsar Saltan, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov included what interlude named for an insect after Prince Gvidon was transformed into the title creature? - ttddFlight of the Bumblebee
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical compositions with something in common. This piece includes the "Infernal Dance" and an oboe represents 13 princesses. Identify this Igor Stravinsky piece in which Prince Ivan destroys an egg. - ttddThe Firebird
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical compositions with something in common. While a group of sailors are sleeping, a captain in this opera is visited by a ghostly figure who sings a lament about how Satan has doomed him to roam the seas until he finds a loyal wife. That captain, Daland, promises his daughter to the ghostly figure. Identify this Richard Wagner opera about Senata saving a cursed sailor by throwing herself into the ocean. - ttddThe Flying Dutchman
Fine Arts: Identify these artists who depicted death. What artist included American soldiers and a Native American surrounding the title figure at the Plains of Abraham in The Death of General Wolfe? - ttddBenjamin West
Fine Arts: Identify these artists who depicted death. This man included many dead babies in The Massacre of the Innocents and also painted The Descent From the Cross. Identify this Flemish artist who often painted fleshy nudes. - ttddPeter Paul Rubens
Fine Arts: Identify these artists who depicted death. This artist included four horses with their legs in the air in a work entitled Derby at Epsom. In the bottom left corner of his most famous painting, a red-cloaked father holds his dead son in a "pyramid of dead bodies." Identify this French artist of The Raft of the Medusa. - ttddTheodore Gericault
Fine Arts: Given a description, identify the following works of art. What painting features an ominous Cyprus tree and a swirling blue and yellow sky that the artist, Vincent Van Gogh, could see outside of his asylum room at Saint Remy? - ttddStarry Night
Fine Arts: Given a description, identify the following works of art. What painting by Edvard Munch may feature a depiction of the eruption of Krakatoa with its orange and red sky as a man presses his hands against his face to perform the title action? - ttddThe Scream
Fine Arts: Given a description, identify the following works of art. Statues of Apollo and Athena overlook the central scene in this painting that features a man holding a baby on the left and one holding a globe on the right. The artist himself appears on the right side of this painting near Ptolemy and Euclid. Plato and Aristotle are seen in the center of what Raphael painting depicting philosophers in the title institution? - ttddThe School of Athens
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals. What musical based on a Gaston Leroux novel features a deformed man named Erik who kidnaps Christine and sings ''The Music of the Night''? - ttddPhantom of the Opera
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals. What musical based on a Victor Hugo novel features the song ''I Dreamed a Dream'' and an escaped convict Jean Valjean who vows to take care of Cosette? - ttddLes Miserables
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals. One character in this musical wishes to perform ''personality dialysis'' on her roommate while attending Shiz University. That roommate later gets into trouble after standing up to her biological father, which she describes in the song ''Defying Gravity.'' Identify this musical about Elphaba and Glinda that details the story of the witches of Oz. - ttddWicked
Fine Arts: Identify the following American artists. What Pop artist is best known for his depictions of Marilyn Monroe and Campbell's Soup cans? - ttddAndy Warhol
Fine Arts: Identify the following American artists. Which artist that practices ''action painting'' earned the nickname ''the Dripper'' for works like ''Lavender Mist''? - ttddJackson Pollock
Fine Arts: Identify the following American artists. A couple serving a turkey and a mother tucking her children into bed are part of this man's ''Four Freedoms'' series. However this man may be better known for a picture of a young African American girl being escorted by three men wearing yellow armbands. Who is this artist of ''The Problem We All Live With'' known for his numerous Saturday Evening Post covers? - ttddNorman Rockwell (Accept Four Freedoms before mentioned)
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. What folk composer is known for songs like ''Oh Susanna'' and ''My Old Kentucky Home''? - ttddStephen Foster
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. What marching band composer is known for works like ''Semper Fidelis'' and ''Stars and Stripes Forever''? - ttddJohn Philip Sousa
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. This composer of El Salon Mexico included the movement ''Hoe-down'' in one of his most famous works. He included a theme based on the Shaker hymn ''Simple Gifts'' in another ballet. Identify this composer of Billy the Kid and Rodeo who worked with Martha Graham on Appalachian Spring? - ttddAaron Copland
Fine Arts: Identify the following historical figures depicted in works of art. Jacques Louis David painted what Frenchman on a horse ''Crossing the Alps'', but more famously depicted this man standing with his hand in his waistcoat? - ttddNapoleon Bonaparte
Fine Arts: Identify the following historical figures depicted in works of art. What male monarch was depicted in a lost work by Hans Holbein the Younger sporting a white rimmed black hat, large gold medallion, white tights and a large red coat? - ttddHenry VIII (Prompt on Henry)
Fine Arts: Identify the following historical figures depicted in works of art. Grant Wood has painted this man in a painting behind the central figures in his Daughters of the Revolution and holding a hatchet in his Parson Weems' Fable. However, a more recognizable painting of this man was painted by Gilbert Stuart. That painting, found on the one dollar bill, features what American president? - ttddGeorge Washington
Fine Arts: Identify the following jazz musicians. What trumpet player nicknamed ''Satchmo'' is known for scat singing in ''Heebie Jeebies''? - ttddLouis Armstrong
Fine Arts: Identify the following jazz musicians. What bandleader and piano player wrote ''Take the A Train'' and ''It Don't Mean a Thing (If it Ain't Got That Swing)''? - ttddEdward Duke Ellington
Fine Arts: Identify the following jazz musicians. This musician reharmonized a Miles Davis work using his namesake ''changes''. That work, ''Countdown'' was featured on his album Giant Steps that also features the tracks ''Naima'' and ''Mr. P.C.''. Identify this jazz musician who also recorded the albums A Love Supreme and My Favorite Things. - ttddJohn Coltrane
Fine Arts: Identify the following works of art. What Theodore Gericault work sees a man among a mound of bodies on the title vessel waving a red and white flag at a nearby boat? - ttddRaft of the Medusa
Fine Arts: Identify the following works of art. What Titian work sees a reclining woman with a handful of flowers and a sleeping dog at her feet in front of two women who sort through a chest near a window? - ttddVenus of Urbino
Fine Arts: Identify the following works of art. Two figures in this painting can only be viewed through a circular mirror on the back wall, above which appears the artist's signature. There is still considerable debate about whether one of the central figures in this painting is pregnant due to the bulge in her green dress. That figure holds hands with a man in a large black hat in what painting by Jan van Eyck? - ttddThe Arnolfini Wedding (Accept The Arnolfini Marriage and The Arnolfini
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical terms. What term denotes an artificially produced very high voice used by a male singer to reach notes higher than his normal range? - ttddFalsetto
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical terms. What musical term is defined as the difference in sound between the first and eighth note on a musical scale? - ttddOctave
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical terms. Team C: What musical term describes a repeating phrase that is played at the end of each verse in a song? - ttddRefrain
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What man who famously stated ''form follows function'' designed the Wainwright Building, one of the first skyscrapers? - ttddLouis Sullivan
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What author introduced the ''Five Points of Architecture'' in his ''Towards a New Architecture'' designed the Villa Savoy and Notre Dame du Haut? - ttddLe Corbusier (Accept Charles-Édouard Jeanneret-Gris)
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. One work by this architect is sometimes referred to as the ''Fred and Ginger'' House and another work by him features a shiny purple building between two silver buildings that look like they are covered in a sheet. Those works, the Dancing House in Prague and the Experience Music Project were designed by what architect of the Bilbao Guggenheim Museum? - ttddFrank Gehry
Fine Arts: Identify the instrument given clues. What stringed instrument has a pedestal with pedals that supports a pillar capped by a crown and is famously played by Joanna Newsom? - ttddHarp
Fine Arts: Identify the instrument given clues. What instrument has a mouthpiece with a staple and double reed and famously was used to represent the duck in ''Peter and the Wolf''? - ttddOboe
Fine Arts: Identify the instrument given clues. Flutes respond to this instrument that pose the title ''Unanswered Question'' in a Charles Ives work. One of the most famous players of this instrument played a bent version and was known for his pouched cheeks. This describes what brass relative of the cornet played by ''Dizzy'' Gillespie that has three valves? - ttddTrumpet
Fine Arts: Identify these musical compositions by Beethoven. What three movement piece by Beethoven that concludes with a ''Presto Agitato'' was nicknamed due to its resemblance to Lake Lucerne on a clear night? - ttddMoonlight Sonata (Accept Piano Sonata No. 14 in C-sharp minor)
Fine Arts: Identify these musical compositions by Beethoven. What work by Beethoven sometimes called a ''bagatelle'' was believed to be directed at a particular woman, though some think her name might actually have been Therese? - ttddFur Elise
Fine Arts: Identify these musical compositions by Beethoven. This work may have borrowed one theme from Mozart's Symphony Number 40 and its long coda ends with a string of 29 fortissimo chords. This work may be best known though for its short-short-short-long motif described as ''fate knocking at the door''. This describes what Beethoven symphony? - ttddBeethoven's Fifth Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. What movement was named after a Claude Monet painting of the sunrise? - ttddImpressionism
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. What movement named after a basic geometric shape notably included artist George Braque? - ttddCubism
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. One piece from this movement features R. Mutt 1917 scribbled in black marker on an upside down urinal and was dubbed The Fountain. That work was one of many ''readymades'' created by Marcel Duchamp during this movement. Identify this art movement with a name meaning ''hobbyhorse''. - ttddDadaism
Fine Arts: Identify the following composers. What German composer who liked to write pieces for the organ is known for ''Tocata and Fugue in D Minor'' and ''The Art of Fugue''? - ttddJohann Sebastian Bach
Fine Arts: Identify the following composers. What German composer of the Hungarian Dances is better known for ''A German Requiem'' and his lullaby? - ttddJohannes Brahms
Fine Arts: Identify the following composers. This composer initially titled one work ''The Lonely Island'' before changing its name to ''The Hebrides Overture''. The trip that inspired that work also influenced this composer to compose the Scottish Symphony. This describes what composer who is most famous for his depiction of A Midsummer Night's Dream that contains his Wedding March. - ttddFelix Mendelssohn
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What Chinese American is known for designing the JFK presidential library and the John Hancock Tower? - ttddI.M. Pei
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What man who famously said ''less is more'' co-designed the Seagram Building with Philip Johnson? - ttddLudwig Mies van der Rohe
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. One of this man's works is sometimes called ''The Flamsteed House'' and is still topped by a ''time ball''. That work, the Royal Observatory at Greenwich was not the only work in England designed by this man, as he oversaw the construction of St. Paul's Cathedral after the Great Fire of London. Identify this man whose tombstone instructs readers to ''look around you''. - ttddSir Christopher Wren
Fine Arts: Identify the following instruments. What instrument with four strings was notably crafted by Stradivari and played by Itzhak Perlman? - ttddViolin
Fine Arts: Identify the following instruments. Edward Elgar composed an E minor concerto for what instrument with four strings notably played by Yo-Yo Ma? - ttddCello
Fine Arts: Identify the following instruments. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart composed a concerto in A major for this instrument, which was also notably played by band leader Benny Goodman. This instrument is also known for playing a memorable glissando at the beginning of Rhapsody in Blue. This describes what woodwind instrument with a single reed and straight black body? - ttddClarinet
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. What movement is defined by the technique combining tiny dots of color to form an image, most famously utilized by Georges Seurat? - ttddPointillism
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. What movements name roughly translates to ''wild beasts'' and featured the works of Henri Matisse? - ttddFauvism
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. One artist of this movement painted a work with a headless white body standing next to a gray machine resembling an elephant. That artist of The Elephant Celebes was joined in this movement by the artist of a work depicting ants crawling on a watch and numerous melting clocks. Identify this art movement that featured such artists as Max Ernst and Salvador Dali. - ttddSurrealism
Fine Arts: Identify the following schools of art. What German art school, founded by Walter Gropius, had a vision of all of the arts being brought together as one? - ttddBauhaus School
Fine Arts: Identify the following schools of art. What school led by Robert Henri and George Bellows was best known for their depictions of poorer New York neighborhoods? - ttddAshcan School
Fine Arts: Identify the following schools of art. One artist from this school depicted a South American mountain range in his work The Heart of the Andes. That artist, Frederic Edwin Church was joined by Albert Bierstadt in this school and its founder was the artist of The Architect's Dream. Identify this group known for their landscape paintings of New York near its namesake river. - ttddHudson River School
Fine Arts: Identify these answer lines related to Igor Stravinsky. What ballet choreographer of one version of The Nutcracker and founder of the New York City Ballet famously choreographed ''The Firebird'' and many other Stravinsky works? - ttddGeorge Balanchine
Fine Arts: Identify these answer lines related to Igor Stravinsky. What Russian male ballet dancer was recruited by Sergei Diaghilev to the Ballets Russes where he helped choreograph Stravinsky's ''The Rite of Spring''? - ttddVaslav Nijinsky
Fine Arts: Identify these answer lines related to Igor Stravinsky. An arpeggio of clarinets play the title characters ''chord'' in this work that sees a Magician excite a crowd at the Shrovetide Fair. The main character of this ballet loves the Ballerina, who in turn loves the Moor. However, all three of these characters are thought to be merely puppets. This describes the plot of what Igor Stravinsky ballet? - ttddPetrushka
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists known for depicting religious figures. What man depicted ''The Miracle of the Slave'' in his St. Mark's series but is best known for his alternative depiction of da Vinci's ''The Last Supper''? - ttddTintoretto
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists known for depicting religious figures. What artist of ''The Expulsion from the Garden of Eden'' famously depicted Jesus directing Peter to search for a coin in a fish's mouth in ''The Tribute Money''? - ttddMasaccio (Accept Tommaso di Ser Giovanni di Simone)
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists known for depicting religious figures. One of this artist's paintings depicts a man on the left ready to leap out of his seat the surprise appearance of Jesus at the table. However, the most well known work by this artist features Jesus pointing at the title tax collector as a ray of light in the upper right illuminates the room. Identify this artist of those works, Supper at Emmaus and The Calling of St. Matthew? - ttddMichelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas given a description. What opera famous for its ''Bridal Chorus'' features the title son of Parsifal slaying Telramund before he must leave Elsa due to her broken vow? - ttddLohengrin
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas given a description. The main character commits suicide after learning of Cavaradossi's death in what opera that sees the stabbing of police chief Scarpia in Rome? - ttddTosca
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas given a description. One main character in this work steals a child in an attempt to avenge her mother, which she later names Manrico. Manrico later falls in love with Leonora, who is also loved by the Count di Luna. This begins the conflict in this opera that eventually leads to both Leonora and Manrico's deaths. This describes the plot of what Verdi opera that features ''The Anvil Chorus''? - ttddIl Trovatore
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical terms. What musical term directs musicians to play a piece very loudly? - ttddFortissimo
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical terms. What musical term directs musicians to play a piece very softly? - ttddPianissimo
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical terms. One symphony by Berlioz uses this technique to depict a rolling head and ''arco'' is a music directive that instructs musicians to stop doing this and return to using their bow. This describes what technique where one plays a stringed instrument by plucking the strings? - ttddPizzicato
Fine Arts: Identify these famous works of architecture. What 630-foot U.S. monument made of stainless steel and shaped like an inverted catenary was designed by Eero Saarinen? - ttddGateway Arch (Accept St. Louis Arch)
Fine Arts: Identify these famous works of architecture. What U.S. monument features a seated figure designed by Daniel Chester French surrounded by a temple designed by Henry Bacon? - ttddLincoln Memorial
Fine Arts: Identify these famous works of architecture. When a group of engineers was asked to write a report on one questionable design plan for this residence, the architect became angry enough to bury the report in a stone wall within this residence, which lies near Bear Run. Designed for the Kaufman family is what Frank Lloyd Wright designed residence that overlooks a waterfall? - ttddFallingwater
Fine Arts: Identify the following films found in the AFI Top 100 List. What movie, number seventeen on the list, details an affair between Benjamin and Mrs. Robinson and features multiple songs by Simon and Garfunkel? - ttddThe Graduate
Fine Arts: Identify the following films found in the AFI Top 100 List. What movie, number ninety-seven on the list, features Harrison Ford in the role of Rick Deckard hunting replicants before he falls in love with one named Rachael? - ttddBlade Runner
Fine Arts: Identify the following films found in the AFI Top 100 List. This movie was based on a stage play called Everybody Comes to Rick's. This movie contributes more quotes than any other film to the AFI's 100 best movie quotes with lines like ''round up the usual suspects''. This describes what third highest movie on the AFI list that stars Humphrey Bogart and is named after a Moroccan city? - ttddCasablanca
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical periods. Ranging from 1780-1910 and featuring the works of Schubert, Beethoven and Rossini is what musical period that stressed surrender to nature and beauty? - ttddRomantic
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical periods. Ranging from 1600-1760 and featuring the works of Handel and Bach is what musical period with a name meaning ''oddly shaped pearl''? - ttddBaroque
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical periods. Public concerts became more popular during this musical period as the numerous church music composers were joined by composers of symphonies and concertos. This period describes music ranging from 1775-1825 that was sometimes named for Vienna, and featured the works of Haydn and Mozart? - ttddClassical
Fine Arts: Identify the following terms you may have heard in art class. What is the oven called that is used for hardening and drying clay for pottery? - ttddKiln
Fine Arts: Identify the following terms you may have heard in art class. What technique often involves newsprint pulp mixed with glue that is pressed against a surface when moist then hardens when dry? - ttddPaper Mache
Fine Arts: Identify the following terms you may have heard in art class. George Lee Quinones was one of the first proponents of this modern art form that he displayed in a New York City subway. Another proponent of this art form is Shepard Fairey, who designed the Obama HOPE poster. Jean-Michel Basquiat is another well-known artist of what art form sometimes viewed as vandalism that may employ a spray can? - ttddGraffiti
Fine Arts: Identify the following directors of famous films. What director's Battleship Potemkin shows a baby carriage rolling down the Odessa Steps in one scene? - ttddSergei Eisenstein
Fine Arts: Identify the following directors of famous films. What director of Rashomon depicts a group of bandits attacking a small town in his Seven Samurai? - ttddAkira Kurosawa
Fine Arts: Identify the following directors of famous films. Famous works by this director include one where Scottie is plagued by his fear of heights, one where a man named Jeff watches his neighbors from his wheelchair, and one where a couple must escape from the top of Mount Rushmore. These works: Vertigo, Rear Window, and North by Northwest were all directed by what man? - ttddAlfred Hitchcock
Fine Arts: Identify the following Russian composers. What composer depicted the ''Great Gate of Kiev'' in his ''Pictures at an Exhibition''? - ttddModest Mussorgsky
Fine Arts: Identify the following Russian composers. What composer depicted the ''Flight of the Bumblebee'' in his ''The Tale of Tsar Saltan''? - ttddNikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
Fine Arts: Identify the following Russian composers. The namesake man of one of this composer's operas returns to Putivl to combat Khans Gzak and Konchak, and to save his wife. That opera features this composer's Polovtsian Dances and this composer is also known for composing ''In the Steppes of Central Asia''. This describes what Russian composer of Prince Igor, who was a member of ''The Five''? - ttddAlexander Borodin
Fine Arts: Identify the following museums of art. What New York art museum featuring large limestone pillars at its entrance is the largest art museum in the United States? - ttddThe Metropolitan Museum of Art
Fine Arts: Identify the following museums of art. What Paris art museum featuring a large glass pyramid at its entrance is the largest art museum in France? - ttddThe Louvre
Fine Arts: Identify the following museums of art. King Charles III did not originally intend for this museum to house art; however, his grandson decided otherwise. This art museum's collection includes The Garden of Earthly Delights, The Third of May 1808, and Las Meninas. With a name meaning ''meadow,'' what is the name of the famous Spanish art museum located in Madrid? - ttddMuseo del Prado
Fine Arts: Identify the following works of art given a description. What work features a man wearing a top hat and carrying a gun on the left, and a boy wielding two pistols on the right of the title woman carrying a French flag? - ttddLiberty Leading the People
Fine Arts: Identify the following works of art given a description. What work features a man in a white shirt with his hands in the air illuminated by a yellow box light, being pressed against a wall by a French firing squad with other victims? - ttddThe Third of May 1808
Fine Arts: Identify the following works of art given a description. All of the figures in this painting reside in front of two pillars that support three arches. On the right, colorfully dressed women mourn as three men raise their arms toward a man in a red robe holding three swords. This describes what Jacques Louis David painting? - ttddThe Oath of the Horatii
Fine Arts: Name these American composers. Doctor Atomic and Nixon in China are two pieces by this minimalist composer who shares his name with an American president. Name this composer who memorialized the 9/11 attacks in On the Transmigration of Souls. - ttddJohn Coolidge Adams
Fine Arts: Name these American composers. Arjuna and Krishna meet the title character in this composer's work Satyagraha. Name this composer best known for his composition Einstein on the Beach. - ttddPhilip Morris Glass
Fine Arts: Name these American composers. Team C: Staccato horns represent a streetcar in this man's opera Vanessa. Name this composer, whose most famous composition Adagio for Strings is used often performed during times of mourning. - ttddSamuel Barber
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings which involve the color pink. A pink-clad woman sits on the title structure as her shoe flies off in what Jean-Honore Fragonard painting? - ttddThe Swing
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings which involve the color pink. Another pink-clad girl climbs up a grassy hill and is afflicted with polio in what Andrew Wyeth painting? - ttddChristina's World
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings which involve the color pink. Toss-Up: In the Huntington Library, this painting hangs across from a portrait of Sarah Barrett Moulton by Thomas Reynolds that is entitled Pinkie. This painting was its artist's response to criticism from his rival, Joshua Reynolds, and depicts a fourteen-year-old named Jonathan Buttall. Identify this full-body portrait by Thomas Gainsborough that is partially named for a color. - ttddThe Blue Boy
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What Giacomo Puccini opera centers around Count Almaviva's pursuit of Rosina and features the aria "Largo al factotum?" - ttddThe Barber of Seville
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What Mozart opera, the sequel to The Barber of Seville, revolves about the title character and his love interest, Susanna? - ttddThe Marriage of Figaro
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Toss-Up: In this opera, one character charges a large bill to the tab of Alcindoro, and two characters sing the duet "Che gelida manina" while searching for a key. One character in this opera sings "Quando m'en vo" in hopes of attracting her former lover, Marcello. The musical Rent is a modern retelling of this opera. Rodolpho holds the Tuberculosis-infected Mimi as she dies in what opera by Giacomo Puccini? - ttddLa Boheme
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Poems by Friedrich Klopstock were used in what Gustav Mahler C-minor symphony that was the second symphony that he composed? - ttddResurrection Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. A funeral march based on "Frere Jacques" was used in what D major Mahler symphony that was the first symphony he composed? - ttddTitan Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This symphony was originally given to Austrian composer Anselm Huttenbrenner. The oboe and clarinet play this symphony's Allegro moderato first movement. The entr'acte for Rosamunde may have originally been the third movement of this symphony that has two movements instead of four. What Franz Schubert symphony is nicknamed for its incompleteness? - ttddUnfinished Symphony or Schubert's Eighth Symphony [Accept "Eighth Symphony" after "Schubert" is mentioned, prompt if given prior to "Schubert"]
Fine Arts: Answer the following about depictions of the Old Testament figure, David. What sculptor created a 17-foot tall marble version of David? - ttddMichelangelo
Fine Arts: Answer the following about depictions of the Old Testament figure, David. What other sculptor created a bronze version of David, the first freestanding nude of the Renaissance? - ttddDonatello
Fine Arts: Answer the following about depictions of the Old Testament figure, David. Toss-Up: This sculptor created David in the process of throwing his sling, and he showed one of the title figures turning into a laurel tree in his sculpture Apollo and Daphne. The Nile, Danube, Ganges, and Amazon are personified in this artist's Fountain of the Four Rivers, but his most famous work shows an angel aiming a golden arrow at the title woman. What Renaissance artist sculpted The Ecstasy of St. Teresa? - ttddGian Lorenzo Bernini
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. What Beethoven symphony was originally dedicated to Napoleon Bonaparte? - ttddEroica Symphony or Beethoven's Third Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. What Beethoven symphony that does not have a nickname includes the famous "fate knocking at the door" motif? - ttddBeethoven's Fifth Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This composition was partially adapted from its composer's opera, The Free Judges, and it features a repeating "Dies Irae" known as an "idee fixe." This symphony was dedicated to the actress, Harriet Smithson, and features a movement that depicts the composer's severed head rolling into a basket. "March to the Scaffold" is a movement included in what drug-inspired symphony by Hector Berlioz? - ttddSymphonie Fantastique
Fine Arts: Answer the following about floral subjects in art. Vincent Van Gogh painted two series of paintings depicting what type of flower that were originally intended to line the walls of his Yellow House? - ttddSunflowers
Fine Arts: Answer the following about floral subjects in art. A flower garden at his home in Giverny, France provided the inspiration for a series of 250 oil paintings by Claude Monet depicting what type of flower? - ttddWaterlilies
Fine Arts: Answer the following about floral subjects in art. Toss-Up: This artist showed white flowers at the feet of the central figure in his portrait of Frederick Law Olmsted. This artist depicted floral patterns on two Japanese vases in one work that depicted the children of a fellow artist. In another painting, this artist surrounded siblings Dolly and Polly Barnard with Chinese lanterns and flowers. This artist of The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit and Carnation, Lily, Lily, Rose is best known for a non-floral seven-foot-tall painting of Virginie Gautreau. Identify this artist who created Portrait of Madame X. - ttddJohn Singer Sargent
Fine Arts: Identify the following cities, given information about their architecture. What Spanish city is home to the country's national art museum, the Prado? - ttddMadrid
Fine Arts: Identify the following cities, given information about their architecture. What American city is home to the Frank Lloyd Wright designed Guggenheim museum? - ttddNew York City
Fine Arts: Identify the following cities, given information about their architecture. Toss-Up: This city is home to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, and its tallest building is the John Hancock Tower. The over 200-year-old Faneuil Hall is located in this city that is the site of a museum with a permanent exhibit about the 1960 presidential election. I. M. Pei's John F. Kennedy Presidential Library is located in what Massachusetts city? - ttddBoston
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical instruments. Yo-yo Ma plays what instrument whose four strings are tuned to A, D, G, and C? - ttddCello
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical instruments. Itzhak Perlman plays what instrument whose four strings are tuned to G, D, A, and E? - ttddViolin
Fine Arts: Identify the following musical instruments. Toss-Up: Igor Stravinsky created a concerto for this instrument called Ebony, and Aaron Copland dedicated a concerto for this instrument to the "King of Swing." Anton Stadler inspired an A major concerto for this instrument by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Artie Shaw and Benny Goodman played what single reed instrument that is pitched in B-flat? - ttddClarinet
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about a location often depicted in art. What large sculpture depicts scenes from Dante's Inferno including The Kiss and Ugolino and His Children? - ttddThe Gates of Hell
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about a location often depicted in art. What French sculptor created The Gates of Hell as well as The Thinker? - ttddAuguste Rodin
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about a location often depicted in art. Toss-Up: It's not John Constable, but this artist depicted Hell in his 1490 work, The Haywain. This artist depicted a nun attempting to balance a book on her head in The Cure of Folly. This man's most famous painting, which hangs in the Prado, shows a knife emerging from between a pair of ears on its right panel, while its center panel shows unicorns and oversized fruits. Identify this Netherlandish artist of the triptych The Garden of Earthly Delights. - ttddHieronymus Bosch
Fine Arts: Identify the following Austrian composers. What man composed the Clock, Farewell, and Surprise Symphonies? - ttddFranz Joseph Haydn
Fine Arts: Identify the following Austrian composers. What man composed The Erlking and the Unfinished Symphony? - ttddFranz Schubert
Fine Arts: Identify the following Austrian composers. Toss-Up: This composer included a choral rendition of the "Shema Yisrael" in his cantata, A Survivor From Warsaw. This composer famously included a "non-existent" inverted ninth chord in his tone poem, Transfigured Night. Twenty-one Albert Giraud poems were the basis for this composer's Pierrot Lunaire. Identify this Austrian composer who is often associated with the twelve-tone scale. - ttddArnold Schoenberg
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings with a common link. What Rembrandt painting is also known as The Shooting Company of Frans Banninck Cocq? - ttddThe Night Watch
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings with a common link. What Edward Hopper painting shows four people in a Greenwich Village diner? - ttddNighthawks
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings with a common link. Toss-Up: In this painting, a clock reads a quarter past twelve, and a green doorway can be seen in the background. A white pot of flowers sits on a bar in this painting that is illuminated by four lamps. The artist's friend, Joseph Ginoux stands next to a billiard table in the center of what Vincent Van Gogh painting set in Arles, France? - ttddThe Night Cafe or Le Cafe de nuit
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. What Hungarian composer organized his Mikrokosmos by difficulty and also composed the opera Duke Bluebeard's Castle? - ttddBela Bartok
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. The Invasion Theme from what Soviet composer's Stalingrad Symphony was parodied by Bartok? He also composed the Babi Yar and The Year 1905 Symphony. - ttddDmitri Shostakovich
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. What French composer of the ballet La Peri is best known for a piece featured in Disney's Fantasia, his The Sorcerer's Apprentice? - ttddPaul Dukas
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings featuring women. What Vermeer painting features a woman sporting a blue and yellow headdress as well as the title piece of jewelry? - ttddGirl with a Pearl Earring
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings featuring women. What Wyeth painting features the title girl sporting a pink dress crawling through a field towards a house in Maine? - ttddChristina's World
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings featuring women. L.H.O.O.Q is a depiction of this painting by Marcel Duchamp in which he draws the central figure with a mustache. That figure has no eyebrows, sits with hands folded, and has a smile that disappears the longer you stare at it. This describes what Leonardo da Vinci painting? - ttddMona Lisa
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions involving princesses in music. Pyotr Tchaikovsky wrote a ballet named for what figure who pricks her finger on a spindle and falls asleep for a hundred years? - ttddThe Sleeping Beauty
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions involving princesses in music. Gioachino Rossini wrote an opera titled for what figure who battles for the love of Ramiro against her ugly stepsisters, Clorinda and Tisbe? - ttddCinderella (accept "La Cerentola")
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions involving princesses in music. Toss-Up: In one musical composition by this composer, a prince's jester named Truffaldino opens two of the title objects that release fairy princesses who later die from thirst. In another composition by this composer, a fictional military officer is blamed for the problems of Russia. This man instructed those playing his Symphony in D minor to play as if, "Haydn might have written it." In this man's most famous piece, a duck is portrayed by an oboe. Identify this composer of Love for Three Oranges, Lieutenant Kije Suite, Classical Symphony, and Peter and the Wolf. - ttddSergei Prokofiev
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What opera sees Don Jose and Escamillo both fall in love with the title gypsy? - ttddCarmen
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What opera sees Tamino and Papageno overcome Sarastro's trials using the title instrument? - ttddMagic Flute
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. A friend of the main character of this opera, who is charged with the delivery of some bad news, learns his friend is a father. That friend's new wife, Kate, agrees to raise the child and returns to Japan with Sharpless and her husband though he cannot face his child's mother who he abandoned. This describes the plot of what Puccini opera ending with Ciocio-san killing herself? - ttddMadame Butterfly
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What Giuseppe Verdi opera includes the arias "Ritorna Vincitor" and "O Patria Mia?" - ttddAida
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What other Giuseppe Verdi opera includes the arias "Questa O Quella" and "La Donna e Mobile?" - ttddRigoletto
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Toss-Up: In this opera, Dr. Blind represents one character in court, and another character goes by "Chevalier Chagrin" while at a party. That character in this opera, Frank, unknowingly takes Alfred to jail instead of a man who secretly attends a party. A maid in this work pretends to be an actress in order to attend Prince Orlofsky's ball. Von Eisenstein tricks Dr. Falke into dressing as the title creature in what Johann Strauss the Younger operetta? - ttddDie Fledermaus or The Bat
Fine Arts: Identify the following Renaissance artists. What sculptor created a 17-foot marble David and painted the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel? - ttddMichelangelo
Fine Arts: Identify the following Renaissance artists. What sculptor created the first free-standing nude of the Renaissance, a bronze statue of David? - ttddDonatello
Fine Arts: Identify the following Renaissance artists. Toss-Up: This artist's only signed work is The Mystical Nativity. In another painting by this artist, Zephyr is holding Chloris on the right while the three Graces are dancing in the forefront. In a different painting by this man, the title nude goddess is blown to shore while standing on a shell. Identify this Italian Renaissance artist of Primavera and The Birth of Venus. - ttddSandro Botticelli
Fine Arts: Answer the following about an Austrian composer and his works. What composer of Eine Kleine Nachtmusik created 41 symphonies, the last of which was called Jupiter? - ttddWolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Fine Arts: Answer the following about an Austrian composer and his works. Franz Sussmayr completed a D minor Mozart work of what type? This name is given to a Catholic mass for the dead. - ttddRequiem
Fine Arts: Answer the following about an Austrian composer and his works. Toss-Up: A peasant in this opera named Masetto plans to mary Zerlina while another character in this opera sings the "Champagne aria." Donna Elvira is an abandoned love interest of the central figure in this work that sees the performance of the "Catalogue Aria" by Leporello. A statue of Il Commendatore comes to life in order to drag the title character to Hell in what Mozart opera? - ttddDon Giovanni
Fine Arts: Identify the following sculptures. What Constantin Brancusi sculpture that resembles a helicopter rotor is meant to depict an avian with its head raised in flight? - ttddBird in Space
Fine Arts: Identify the following sculptures. Benvenuto Cellini depicted a Greek hero standing on the body of a Gorgon while holding her disembodied head in what sculpture? - ttddPerseus with the Head of Medusa
Fine Arts: Identify the following sculptures. Toss-Up: This sculpture is surrounded by four black marble columns while four candles and a crucifix sit below this sculpture. This piece is housed in the Cornaro Chapel, and it is illuminated by real sunlight coming from a glass panel above it. An angel aims a spear at the title woman in what sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini? - ttddThe Ecstasy of St. Teresa
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Count Almaviva attempts to court Rosina in what Giachino Rossini opera that includes the aria "Largo al Factotum?" - ttddThe Barber of Seville
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. The title character is successful in marrying Susanna despites the Count's attempts to foil their wedding in what Mozart opera, the sequel to The Barber of Seville? - ttddThe Marriage of Figaro
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Toss-Up: In this opera, prisoners sing "O Welche Lust," and Jaquino dreams of marrying Marzelline. A guard in this opera, Rocco, helps the title character find her husband in Pizarro's prison. Due to Don Fernando's intervention, Florestan is released and reunited with Leonore in what opera by Ludwig von Beethoven? - ttddFidelio
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about European sculptors. Miniature versions of The Thinker and The Three Shades are included in what large Auguste Rodin sculpture that depicts scenes from Dante's Inferno? - ttddThe Gates of Hell
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about European sculptors. Also included in The Gates of Hell is a miniature version of what other Rodin sculpture that depicts an embrace between Paolo and Francesca? - ttddThe Kiss
Fine Arts: Answer these questions about European sculptors. Toss-Up: One figure in this sculpture holds an oar while another figure appears to be startled by a snake. An obelisk stands in the middle of this sculpture that was commissioned by Pope Innocent X. The Rio de la Plata, Danube, Ganges, and Nile are all depicted in what sculpture by Gian Lorenzo Bernini? - ttddFountain of the Four Rivers
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings with a French connection. What painting by French artist Jacques Louis David shows the title figure moments before he dies from drinking hemlock? - ttddThe Death of Socrates
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings with a French connection. A French revolutionary lies dead in a bathtub while holding a feather pen and a letter in what other painting by Jacques Louis David? - ttddThe Death of Marat
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings with a French connection. Toss-Up: In this painting a boy runs in from the left-hand side with a flag of surrender, and a Native American rests his chin on his fist while next to the title red-clad figure. This scene took place on the Plains of Abraham during the Battle of Quebec. Identify this Benjamin West painting depicting the final moments of a general in the French and Indian War. - ttddThe Death of General Wolfe
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Which Beethoven symphony is subtitled, "Recollections of Country Life" and included a movement entitled "Thunderstorm"? - ttddPastoral Symphony OR Beethoven's 6th Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Which Beethoven symphony included the Friedrich Schiller work "Ode to Joy?" It was the last symphony that he composed. - ttddChoral Symphony OR Beethoven's 9th Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This symphony was premiered at Carnegie Hall in 1893 and it includes a version of the song "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot." This symphony was partially inspired by a William Arms Fisher spiritual entitled "Goin' Home", and it was written following its composer's visit to the United States. Identify this E minor 9th Symphony by Antonin Dvorak. - ttddFrom the New World Symphony (Accept Dvorak's 9th Symphony before mentioned)
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Beethoven depicted rustic scenes in what symphony, subtitled "Recollection of Country Life" whose fourth movement is meant to depict a thunderstorm? - ttddPastoral Symphony (Accept Beethoven's Sixth Symphony)
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Beethoven depicts "fate knocking at the door" in what C minor symphony known for its famous "short-short-short-long" opening? - ttddBeethoven's Fifth Symphony.
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This non-Beethoven symphony mimics the Eroica Symphony by instructing the second bassoon and first horn to hold a B pedal during its first movement. The clarinets pass the melody to the bassoons in the second movement of this work, which is marked in ⅜ time. When performing the premiere of this symphony, Johann Herbeck included a third movement scherzo that was originally not included in the score. Identify this two-movement symphony by Franz Schubert. - ttddUnfinished Symphony (accept Schubert's Eighth Symphony)
Fine Arts: Answer the following about real life events depicted in art. Morro Castle is depicted in the background of what John Singleton Copley painting set in Havana Harbor? - ttddWatson and the Shark
Fine Arts: Answer the following about real life events depicted in art. The Old North Church is depicted in the foreground of a Grant Wood painting depicting what Revolutionary War event? - ttddThe Midnight Ride of Paul Revere (accept forms; does not need to be exact)
Fine Arts: Answer the following about real life events depicted in art. Toss-Up: This artist depicted the mother of a Roman Emperor with her deceased husband's remains in a painting commissioned by the Archbishop of York. In another painting by this artist, a baby is tied down to a board to the right of an event that occurred in Shackamaxon. This painter of Agrippina Landing at Brundisium with the Ashes of Germanicus and The Treaty of Penn, incorrectly included Robert Monckton in his depiction of the aftermath of the Battle of Quebec. Identify this American artist of The Death of General Wolfe. - ttddBenjamin West
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What man rebuilt many buildings in London after the 1666 fire including St. Paul's Cathedral? - ttddSir Christopher Wren
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What man served as the mentor to Frank Lloyd Wright, built the Wainwright Building, and is considered the "father of the modern skyscraper"? - ttddLouis Sullivan
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. Toss-Up: This architect designed the Caroline Wiess Law Building and the German Pavilion which housed his Barcelona Chair. This man designed Chicago's Lakeshore Drive Apartments and collaborated with another architect on a building at 375 Park Avenue. What architect, along with Philip Johnson, designed the Seagram Building? - ttddLudwig Mies van der Rohe
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. What composer of The Tales of Hoffmann included the "Galop Infernal" in his grand opera, Orpheus in the Underworld? - ttddJacques Offenbach
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. What composer paired a Gigue with his composition Canon in D? - ttddJohann Pachelbel
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. Toss-Up: It's not Antonio Vivaldi, but this composer's first symphony is named for spring, and he included musical cryptograms in a musical work for piano that quotes his earlier work, Papillons. This composer of Carnival created an E-flat major symphony named after a river, the Rhenish Symphony. What German composer married his piano teacher's daughter, Clara? - ttddRobert Schumann
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. What Beethoven symphony was originally dedicated to Napoleon? - ttddEroica Symphony or Beethoven's Third Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. What Beethoven symphony features the famous "short-short-short-long" motif? - ttddBeethoven's Fifth Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This symphony's sequel is entitled Lelio and its first movement is called "Reveries -- Passions." This symphony features a recurring "idee fixe," theme and the composer depicted a severed head rolling into a basket in this symphony's "March to the Scaffold" movement. Harriet Smithson was the dedicatee of what symphony by Hector Berlioz? - ttddSymphonie Fantastique
Fine Arts: Identify the following 20th century Jazz musicians. What Jazz trumpeter produced the song, "So What?" on his album, Kind of Blue? - ttddMiles Davis
Fine Arts: Identify the following 20th century Jazz musicians. "What a Wonderful World" is by what other Jazz trumpet player who was nicknamed "Satchmo?" - ttddLouis Armstrong
Fine Arts: Identify the following 20th century Jazz musicians. Toss-Up: To describe this man's music, Ira Gitler coined the phrase "Sheets of Sound," and this musician's quartet included McCoy Tyner, Jimmy Garrison, and Elvin Jones. This composer included the song "Naima" on his album Giant Steps. Identify this jazz saxophonist who produced the album A Love Supreme. - ttddJohn Coltrane
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What American architect designed the Johnson Wax Headquarters and Fallingwater? - ttddFrank Lloyd Wright
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. What Canadian-American architect designed the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain in addition to the Walt Disney Concert Hall in Los Angeles? - ttddFrank Gehry
Fine Arts: Identify the following architects. Toss-Up: This man created the Barcelona chair for his German Pavilion, and he designed the high-rise apartments on Chicago's Lakeshore Drive. This architect included a floor to ceiling glass wall in his Farnsworth House, and he collaborated with Philip Johnson on a New York skyscraper. Identify this German-American architect of the Seagram Building. - ttddLudwig Mies van der Rohe
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. What German composer was inspired by Friedrich Nietzsche to write the tone poem Thus Spoke Zarathustra? - ttddRichard Strauss
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. What Hungarian composer was known for his Hungarian Rhapsodies and Transcendental Etudes? - ttddFranz Liszt
Fine Arts: Identify the following European composers. Toss-Up: This composer included the "Hailstone Chorus" in his oratorio, Israel in Egypt, and featured the movement "La Paix" in a suite celebrating the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle entitled Music for the Royal Fireworks. One section of this composer's best-known work entitled "For he shall reign for ever and ever" caused King George II to stand during its performance. Identify this composer of Messiah? - ttddGeorge Handel
Fine Arts: Identify the following 20th century American composers. What minimalist composer created Imaginary Landscapes and 4:33 (read: four minutes, 33 seconds)? - ttddJohn Cage
Fine Arts: Identify the following 20th century American composers. What Minimalist composer included Satyagraha, Akhenaton, and Einstein on the Beach in his Portrait Trilogy? - ttddPhilip Glass
Fine Arts: Identify the following 20th century American composers. Toss-Up: Walter Damrosch commissioned this composer's Concerto in F, and four taxi cabs are depicted in this man's work An American in Paris. Paul Whiteman's band was the dedicatee of a composition by this man that opens with a seventeen-note clarinet glissando. Identify this American composer of Rhapsody in Blue. - ttddGeorge Gershwin
Fine Arts: Identify the following American artists. Helga Testorf was often depicted by what American artist who is best known for painting Christina's World? - ttddAndrew Wyeth
Fine Arts: Identify the following American artists. What American artist used his wife, Jo, as a model for a woman in red in his painting Nighthawks? - ttddEdward Hopper
Fine Arts: Identify the following American artists. Toss-Up: This artist created eight vertical lines for his painting, Blue Poles, and this husband of Lee Krasner included nails, buttons, and a torn cigarette in his 1947 painting, Full Fathom Five. Purple hues appear over black lines in a 1950 painting by this artist entitled Lavender Mist. Identify this American abstract expressionist known as "Jack the Dripper." - ttddJackson Pollock (Prompt on "Jack the Dripper" until mentioned)
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Which Beethoven symphony is subtitled, "Recollections of Country Life" and included a movement entitled "Thunderstorm"? - ttddPastoral Symphony OR Beethoven's 6th Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Which Beethoven symphony included the Friedrich Schiller work "Ode to Joy?" It was the last symphony that he composed. - ttddChoral Symphony OR Beethoven's 9th Symphony
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This symphony was premiered at Carnegie Hall in 1893 and it includes a version of the song "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot." This symphony was partially inspired by a William Arms Fisher spiritual entitled "Goin' Home", and it was written following its composer's visit to the United States. Identify this E minor 9th Symphony by Antonin Dvorak. - ttddFrom the New World Symphony (Accept Dvorak's 9th Symphony before mentioned)
Fine Arts: Identify the following about French painters. What French Fauvist artist included five people holding hands in The Dance? - ttddHenri Matisse
Fine Arts: Identify the following about French painters. What French artist painted The Burial at Ornans and The Artist's Studio? - ttddGustave Courbet
Fine Arts: Identify the following about French painters. Toss-Up: This artist depicted a woman standing on rubble in his painting Greece Expiring on the Ruins of Missolonghi, and he showed a king reclining on a red bed in The Death of Sardanapalus. In another work by this artist, a boy holds two pistols and a man wears a top hat. A bare-breasted woman holds the French flag in a painting by what artist of Liberty Leading the People? - ttddEugene Delacroix
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals that were turned into movies in the 1950s. What Rodgers and Hammerstein musical focuses on Anna Leonowens and the ruler of Siam. "Shall we dance" is a song in this musical. - ttddThe King and I
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals that were turned into movies in the 1950s. What other Rodgers and Hammerstein musical focuses on Curly McLain and includes the number, "The Surrey with the Fringe on Top?" - ttddOklahoma!
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals that were turned into movies in the 1950s. Toss-Up: In this musical, one character unknowingly drinks a "Cuban milkshake" and another character sings her namesake "Lament" when her date is a no-show. "Luck be a Lady" and "Sit Down You're Rocking the Boat" are two songs in this musical that includes the characters Sky Masterson and Nicely-Nicely Johnson. Sarah Brown falls in love with Nathan Detroit in what musical about a floating craps game? - ttddGuys and Dolls
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings that prominently feature animals. The title creature approaches a young boy in Havana harbor in what painting by John Singleton Copley? - ttddWatson and the Shark
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings that prominently feature animals. A green-faced man looks into the eyes of a goat in what painting by Marc Chagall? - ttddI and the Village
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings that prominently feature animals. Tossup: In the background of this painting, a dragon swallows St. Margaret while a mirror in this painting is surrounded by depictions of Christ. A cherry tree can be seen through a window in this painting that also features a single candle in a chandelier. A pair of clogs and a brown dog are at the bottom of this work, that also includes a green-clad figure who may be pregnant. The title Italian merchant holds hands with his wife in what painting by Jan Van Eyck? - ttddArnolfini Wedding [Accept "Arnolfini Portrait " and "Arnolfini Marriage "]
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. What African-American composer is best known for his Maple Leaf Rag and was known as the "King of Ragtime?" - ttddScott Joplin
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. What composer who often worked with his brother Ira included a clarinet glissando in his Rhapsody in Blue? - ttddGeorge Gershwin
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. Tossup: This composer was commissioned by Benny Goodman to write his Clarinet Concerto, and he used portions of the Gettysburg Address for an orchestral work entitled A Lincoln Portrait. This composer included a "Hoedown" section to end his ballet Rodeo and he wrote a work for the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra entitled Fanfare for the Common Man. This man's most famous composition was commissioned by Martha Graham and was based on the Shaker hymn, "Simple Gifts." Identify this composer of Appalachian Spring. - ttddAaron Copland
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists based on their depictions of women. Adele Bloch Bauer was the only woman painted twice by what artist who used gold-leaf in his painting The Kiss? - ttddGustav Klimt
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists based on their depictions of women. What artist included his mistress Joanna Hiffernan in his painting Symphony in White and a woman in a black dress in his painting Arrangement in Grey and Black, Number One? - ttddJames Whistler
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists based on their depictions of women. Tossup: Fellow artist Frolic Weymouth kept a series of this artist's paintings hidden from the public. This artist depicted a blonde-haired girl turned away from the viewer as she sits near a window in his painting, Lovers and depicted the same girl with the title hairstyle in his painting, Braids. Those paintings were set in Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania where this artist was neighbors with Helga Testorf. This artist is best known for a painting set in Cushing, Maine that depicts a girl with polio climbing a grassy hill. What American artist created Christina's World? - ttddAndrew Wyeth
Fine Arts: Identify the following English composers. What composer attempted to teach children different instruments in his composition The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra? - ttddBenjamin Britten
Fine Arts: Identify the following English composers. What composer's Pomp and Circumstance is often played at graduation ceremonies? - ttddEdward Elgar
Fine Arts: Identify the following English composers. Toss-Up: This composer drew on Hindu beliefs for his opera Savitri, and he used "Dargason" in his suite named for St. Paul. His most famous work includes the Cecil Spring-Rice poem, "I Vow to Thee My Country," and has movements entitled "The Bringer of Old Age" and "The Bringer of War." Identify this English composer of The Planets. - ttddGustav Holst
Fine Arts: Identify the following Renaissance paintings. The title goddess of love is blown to shore while standing on a half shell in what painting by Sandro Botticelli? - ttddThe Birth of Venus
Fine Arts: Identify the following Renaissance paintings. The three graces dance to the left of a clothed Venus in what other painting by Sandro Botticelli? - ttddPrimavera
Fine Arts: Identify the following Renaissance paintings. Toss-Up: The scene in this painting is illuminated by an unseen light source in the top right while a yellow-clad man stands in front of another man in this painting who is pointing to the left. A boy in blue and white straddles a bench in this painting while the title tax collector holds a coin and points to himself. Identify this painting of a Biblical scene by Caravaggio. - ttddThe Calling of St. Matthew
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings by American artists. What painting by Andrew Wyeth depicts a polio-affected girl in a pink dress climbing up a grassy hill? - ttddChristina's World
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings by American artists. A woman in a white bonnet sits facing the left in what painting by the artist of Nocturne in Black and Gold? - ttddArrangement in Grey and Black, No. 1 or Whistler's Mother
Fine Arts: Identify the following paintings by American artists. Toss-Up: Two potted plants sit on a porch in this painting whose right side shows a red barn. A white church is visible in the background of this painting that is set in Eldon, Iowa. Byron McKeeby and Nan, the artist's dentist and sister, stand next to one another in this painting that is best known for one figure holding a pitchfork. Identify this painting by Grant Wood. - ttddAmerican Gothic
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists who depicted boats. What French artist included two small sailboats in his painting Impression, Sunrise? - ttddClaude Monet
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists who depicted boats. What other French Impressionist showed his future wife, Aline Charigot in Luncheon of the Boating Party? - ttddPierre Renoir
Fine Arts: Identify the following artists who depicted boats. Toss-Up: This artist showed a man standing in a boat in his depiction of the Old Battersea Bridge and he included The Princess From the Land of Porcelain in his "Peacock Room." This artist sued John Ruskin for libel after his painting The Falling Rocket was criticized. Identify this artist who showed his mother in Arrangement of Grey and Black, No. 1. - ttddJames Whistler
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. What man included the operas, Satyagraha, Akhenaton, and Einstein on the Beach in his Portrait Trilogy? - ttddPhilip Glass
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. What other minimalist composer invented the "prepared piano" and composed the piece 4 Minutes and 33 Seconds? - ttddJohn Cage
Fine Arts: Identify the following American composers. Toss-Up: One work by this composer was used in the movie, The Sting. The title character is saved by Remus in one of this composer's operas that was not performed until twenty years after his death. This composer of Treemonisha is known for a song frequently played by ice cream trucks entitled The Entertainer. Identify this African-American composer of the Maple Leaf Rag. - ttddScott Joplin
Fine Arts: Identify the following photographers. What photographer who showed that horses have all four legs off the ground when galloping captured the photo collection Animal Locomotion? - ttddEadweard Muybridge
Fine Arts: Identify the following photographers. What photographer captured images of Civil War soldiers in Dead at Antietam? - ttddMatthew Brady
Fine Arts: Identify the following photographers. Toss-Up: This photographer took a series of abstract photographs of the sky for his collection Equivalents and along with Edward Steichen, this photographer founded Gallery 291 in New York. This man showed horse-drawn carriages in The Terminal, and in his most famous photograph, a bridge divides the upper- and lower-class passengers on the SS Kaiser Wilhelm. The Steerage was photographed by what husband of Georgia O'Keefe? - ttddAlfred Stieglitz
Fine Arts: Identify the following animals in music. The flight of what animal is depicted by chromatic 16th notes in Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov's opera, Tale of Tsar Sultan? - ttddBumblebee
Fine Arts: Identify the following animals in music. French horns represent the title animal in Sergei Prokofiev's composition entitled for Peter and [what animal]? - ttddWolf
Fine Arts: Identify the following animals in music. Toss-Up: In the Richard Wagner opera Lohengrin, the title character arrives on a boat pulled by these creatures. Sixteen of these animals were the inspiration for an E flat major symphony by a man who also composed a piece entitled, [this animal] of Tuonela, Jean Sibelius. A cello represents this animal in the penultimate movement of Camille Saint-Saens's Carnival of the Animals. Identify this white bird. - ttddSwan (prompt on "Bird" until mentioned)
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What Guiseppe Verdi opera about Radames and an Ethiopian princess includes the aria, "O Patria Mia?" - ttddAida
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. What Guiseppe Verdi opera about a hunchback jester includes the aria, "La Donna e Mobile?" - ttddRigoletto
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Toss-Up: One character in this opera begins to understand birds once he tastes dragon's blood, and another character in this opera, Albrecht, is a dwarf known for his forging abilities. This grand opera consists of "The Twilight of the Gods," "The Valkyrie," "Siegfried," and "The Rhinegold." Identify this grand opera by Richard Wagner. - ttddThe Ring Cycle
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals. "Music of the Night" is a song in what musical about the romance between the title character and Christine? - ttddPhantom of the Opera
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals. "Aaron Burr, Sir" is a song in what musical about the first Secretary of the Treasury? - ttddHamilton
Fine Arts: Identify the following musicals. Toss-Up: One of the final scenes in musical shows Fiyero knocking on a door. Two characters in this musical meet at Shiz University and later sing the song "Popular". "Defying Gravity" is sung by the illegitimate daughter of the governor of Munchkinland in this musical. Elphaba is the main character of what musical that is a prequel to The Wizard of Oz? - ttddWicked
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. What Mozart opera features Leporello and the title womanizer who is eventually dragged to Hell by a statue of Il Commendatore? - ttddDon Giovanni
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Tamino uses the title instrument to defeat the Queen of the Night in what Mozart opera? - ttddThe Magic Flute
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Toss-Up: On a trip back from Austria, Mozart composed a composition of this type named "Linz," and a D major composition of this type by Mozart is named "Haffner." Mozart created two G minor compositions of this type which he called "Great" and "Little." "Jupiter" is the name of the final Mozart composition of what type? - ttddMozart Symphonies
Fine Arts: Answer the following about Russian music. What Tchaikovsky ballet includes the "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy" and partially takes place at the Stahlbaum house? - ttddThe Nutcracker
Fine Arts: Answer the following about Russian music. What other Tchaikovsky ballet features the wizard von Rothbart who turns Odette into the title bird? - ttddSwan Lake
Fine Arts: Answer the following about Russian music. Toss-Up: This composer created an eight movement work whose movements can be played in any order. This composer of Suite for Variety Orchestra was criticized for his opera Lady Macbeth of the Mtsensk District. Yevgeny Yevtushenko poems are featured in his Babi Yar Symphony, and he included a 22-bar "Invasion Theme" in his seventh symphony. Identify this composer of the Leningrad Symphony. - ttddDmitri Shostakovich
Fine Arts: Identify the following artworks by French artists. Marcel Duchamp added a mustache to the Mona Lisa in what painting that is an example of a readymade? - ttddL. H. O. O. Q
Fine Arts: Identify the following artworks by French artists. Marcel Duchamp wrote the phrase "R. Mutt 1917" on the side of an upside-down urinal in what best-known example of a readymade? - ttddFountain
Fine Arts: Identify the following artworks by French artists. Toss-Up: This painting features four men rowing in the background, and on the left side of this painting a man in a top hat sits holding a cane. The only figure in this painting looking at the viewer is a small girl in all white, who stands next to her mother who holds a red umbrella. This painting currently hangs in Chicago's Art Institute and was prominently featured in the film Ferris Bueller's Day Off. A woman holds a monkey on a leash in what pointillist painting by Georges Seurat? - ttddA Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about American composers. The operas Akhenaten, Satyagraha, and Einstein on the Beach make up what composer's Portrait Trilogy? - ttddPhilip Glass
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about American composers. Philip Glass is associated with what style of music? - ttddMinimalism
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about American composers. Toss-Up: This composer's first symphony begins with "Amidah" and is named for the author of the Book of Lamentations. A Jewish prayer for the dead names this composer's Kaddish Symphony. "Somewhere" and "Maria" are two songs by this composer featured in a musical about the Sharks and the Jets. Identify this American composer who wrote West Side Story. - ttddLeonard Bernstein
Fine Arts: Answer the following about Spanish art. The career of Pablo Picasso featured numerous "periods" of art. What Pablo Picasso period is exemplified by his painting Les Demoiselles D'Avignon? - ttddAfrican Period
Fine Arts: Answer the following about Spanish art. What other Pablo Picasso period is exemplified by his painting, Boy with a Pipe? - ttddRose Period
Fine Arts: Answer the following about Spanish art. Toss-Up: This artist showed a man covering himself with a green cloth given to him by a man on a white horse in the painting St. Martin and the Beggar. This artist rearranged the layout of actual buildings in his painting View of Toledo. This artist divided his most famous painting into earthly and heavenly realms to depict the title event. What Spanish artist painted The Burial of the Count of Orgaz? - ttddEl Greco or The Greek
Fine Arts: Answer the following about waltzes in music. What Polish composer created the Minute Waltz and is known for composing many etudes? - ttddFrederic Chopin
Fine Arts: Answer the following about waltzes in music. The Waltz King, Johann Strauss the Younger, created a waltz named for what river that runs through Vienna, Austria? - ttddDanube
Fine Arts: Answer the following about waltzes in music. Toss-Up: In this composition's first act, a waltz between the grandfather and central figure occurs. The first act of this composition ends with a waltz of snowflakes. This composition also features the Waltz of the Flowers, which features this ballet's antagonist, the Mouse King. This composition is named for a gift from Herr Drosselmeyer that was given to Clara. Identify this Pyotr Tchaikovsky ballet often performed around Christmas. - ttddThe Nutcracker
Fine Arts: Identify the following Russian composers. What composer, a member of "The Five," wrote the opera Boris Godunov and the tone poem Night on Bald Mountain? - ttddModest Mussorgsky
Fine Arts: Identify the following Russian composers. What other member of "The Five" created the opera, Tale of Tsar Sultan, which contains his "Flight of the Bumblebee?" - ttddNikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
Fine Arts: Identify the following Russian composers. Tossup: This composer included the "Dance of the Knights" in his ballet, Romeo and Juliet and he wrote about a prince whose sickness can only be cured with laughter in his satirical opera The Love for Three Oranges. This composer asked for his first symphony to be played in "Haydn's style." This composer of the Classical Symphony used a clarinet to represent a cat and a bassoon to represent the grandfather in his most famous work. Identify this composer of Peter and the Wolf. - ttddSergei Prokofiev
Fine Arts: Identify the following portraits. What Jan Vermeer painting shows a woman wearing a turban and the title piece of jewelry? - ttddGirl with a Pearl Earring
Fine Arts: Identify the following portraits. Thomas Gainsborough created what full-body portrait of Jonathan Buttall, who is wearing the title color? - ttddThe Blue Boy
Fine Arts: Identify the following portraits. Toss-Up: This portrait is shown multiple times in the painting Thirty Are Better Than One. - ttddA goatee and moustache were added to this portrait in a parody by Marcel Duchamp entitled
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. What symphony by Franz Joseph Haydn includes a sudden fortissimo chord in the middle of its second movement meant to awaken any audience members who had fallen asleep? - ttddSurprise Symphony OR Symphony Number 94
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. A ticking noise provides the name of what other Haydn symphony that was the 9th of Haydn's 12 London Symphonies - ttddClock Symphony OR Symphony Number 101
Fine Arts: Identify the following symphonies. Toss-Up: This symphony has a B-flat horn solo in its third movement, and its first movement has an ostinato rhythm that sounds like a funeral march. This symphony's fourth movement was said to be a 'Symphony within a symphony." In this symphony, a choir sings about a "daughter of Elysium." Friedrich Schiller's "Ode to Joy" is featured what Beethoven symphony, his ninth? - ttddChoral Symphony [Accept "Beethoven's Ninth" until Beethoven is mentioned]
Fine Arts: Answer the following about art and architecture in New York City. What Art Deco building, located at 350 Fifth Ave, has 102 stories, and is currently the 5th tallest completed skyscraper in the United States? - ttddEmpire State Building
Fine Arts: Answer the following about art and architecture in New York City. What building, located at 285 Fulton Street, opened in 2014, and is the tallest structure in the Western Hemisphere at 1,776 feet? - ttddOne World Trade Center
Fine Arts: Answer the following about art and architecture in New York City. Toss-Up: One painting depicting this sport in New York City shows a black man overpowering a white man who wears green shorts. In addition to being the subject of the painting Both Members of this Club, this sport was depicted in the painting Stag at Sharkey's by an artist from the Ashcan School who often created paintings of this sport, George Bellows. Identify this sport that was played by Mike Tyson and Muhammad Ali. - ttddBoxing
Fine Arts: Identify the following monuments. Gutzon Borglum created what monument in South Dakota that features the heads of four Presidents? - ttddMount Rushmore
Fine Arts: Identify the following monuments. Daniel Chester French designed the seated statue of what President for a Washington D. C. memorial? - ttddAbraham Lincoln
Fine Arts: Identify the following monuments. Toss-Up: This structure is the tallest man-made monument in the Western Hemisphere, and it is dedicated to "the American people." This monument sits next to the Jefferson National Expansion museum, and the design resembles an inverted catenary curve. Identity this 630-foot-tall Eero Saarinen work that sits in St. Louis, Missouri. - ttddGateway Arch [Accept "St. Louis Arch" until "St. Louis" is mentioned]
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about compositions partially named after seasons. Martha Graham was the dedicatee of what Aaron Copland ballet that has a seventh movement based on variations of the Shaker hymn, "Simple Gifts"? - ttddAppalachian Spring
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about compositions partially named after seasons. Felix Mendelssohn's famous "Wedding March" is included in his incidental music to what Shakespearean comedy? - ttddIncidental Music to A Midsummer Night's Dream
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about compositions partially named after seasons. This composer created a choral rendition of the William Blake poem "Sound the Flute!" in his symphony named for spring. This teacher of Peter Pears collaborated with W. H. Auden on a choral piece named for St. Cecilia. This composer also transformed famous novels, such as Turn of the Screw and Billy Budd into operas, and he used poems by Wilfred Owen in his War Requiem. This composer's most famous composition was intended to teach children different musical instruments. What English composer is best known for The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra? - ttddBenjamin Britten
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about depictions of dogs in art. A dwarf kicks a mastiff in the bottom right corner of what Diego Velazquez painting that depicts the Infanta Margarita? - ttddLas Meninas [accept "The Maids of Honor" or "The Ladies-in-Waiting")
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about depictions of dogs in art. A small brown dog stands next to a pair of wooden clogs at the bottom of what Jan Van Eyck painting that shows the title Italian merchant and his wife? - ttddThe Arnolfini Wedding [accept "The Arnolfini Portrait" or "The Arnolfini Wedding Portrait"]
Fine Arts: Answer the following questions about depictions of dogs in art. This artist depicted his dog Pitter staring at a boy in a red flannel jacket in the painting Pride of Parenthood. Many of this artist's early works were published in the magazine Boys' Life, and one painting by this artist was kept at the White House during a 2011 visit between its subject and Barack Obama. That aforementioned painting includes a racial slur on the wall behind its central figure, Ruby Bridges. This artist of The Problem We All Live With also depicted a family eating a Thanksgiving meal in the painting, Freedom from Want. Identify this American artist of The Four Freedom Series whose works were often published in the Saturday Evening Post. - ttddNorman Rockwell
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Giacomo Rossini included the aria, "Largo al factotum," in what opera that sees Figaro help Count Almaviva marry Rosina? - ttddThe Barber of Seville [accept The Useless Precaution]
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. Rossini included the aria, "Sois Immobile," in what opera that sees the title character shoot an apple off his son's head? - ttddWilliam Tell
Fine Arts: Identify the following operas. In this opera, one character seduces Maddalena, and Marullo announces that another character has a secret mistress. A third character in this opera sings about her love for a poor student named Gualtier Malde, and as a result of Count Monterone's actions in act one of this opera, it was originally called "The Curse." "Questa O Quella" is sung at the beginning of this opera by the same character who sings, "La Donna e Mobile." This opera ends with the title character realizing he accidentally paid twenty scudi for the murder of his daughter, Gilda, instead of the Duke. A hunchback jester names what Giuseppe Verdi opera? - ttddRigoletto
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. Andy Warhol was the most prominent member of what art movement exemplified by his Campbell's Soup Cans? - ttddPop Art
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. What American art movement, named for a natural New York landscape feature, was founded by Thomas Cole? - ttddHudson River School
Fine Arts: Identify the following art movements. One painting from this art movement shows pink ribbon being wrapped around the foot of the title figure. Another painting from this art movement shows cherubs flying around a golden boat in the background. Francis Boucher's Toilet of Venus and Antoine Watteau's The Embarkation for Cythera belonged to this art movement, but the most famous painting from this art movement shows two cupid statues and a man looking up the central figure's dress as she uses the title object. Jean-Honore Fragonard's The Swing belonged to what French art movement? - ttddRococo
Fine Arts: Identify these works by European composers. Cecil Spring Rice's poem "I Vow to Thee My Country" was set to music in what composition that includes a movement subtitled "The Bringer of Jollity"? - ttddThe Planets
Fine Arts: Identify these works by European composers. What ballet that is titled for a puppet opens at Shrovetide Fair and contains a namesake chord formed by two clarinets playing a C sharp and an F sharp simultaneously? - ttddPetrushka
Fine Arts: Identify these works by European composers. Johan Halvorsen posthumously published the complete score of this composition in 1908. One movement of this composition takes place in a Moroccan desert where one character is holding a branch to defend himself against apes. Although this piece is not based on the story of Oedipus, one character in this composition is said to have solved the riddle of the Sphinx while another movement of this piece features trolls and goblins. Anitra's Dance, Morning Mood, and In the Hall of the Mountain King are movements in what incidental music by Edvard Grieg? - ttddPeer Gynt