Answer these questions about the geography of Africa. Following the 2011 Libyan civil war⸴ this capital city's Green Square was renamed to Martyr's Square. - ttddTripoli [or Tarabulus]
Answer these questions about the geography of Africa. The Egyptian Coptic Church is based in this city that in antiquity was the site of a massive library founded by Ptolemy I. - ttddAlexandria
Answer these questions about the geography of Africa. One of this country's cities contains the busiest marketplace in Africa⸴ a square called the Jemaa el-Fnaa. A mosque in this country⸴ which was designed by Michel Pinseau⸴ has the highest minaret in the world and was constructed by its former king Hassan II⸴ a member of its ruling Alaouite Dynasty. This countryˈs city of Marrakech is found north of the Atlas Mountains⸴ and it claims control over the disputed region of Western Sahara. Name this North African country⸴ home to Casablanca⸴ that is located directly south of Spain. - ttddKingdom of Morocco [or Maroc; or Al-Mamlakah al-Maghribiyah]
Name the following United States state capitals. The original World of Coca-Cola was located in this state capital that also hosted the 1996 Summer Olympics. - ttddAtlanta
Name the following United States state capitals. Located on a namesake river⸴ this capital city was founded following the discovery of gold at nearby Sutter's Mill. - ttddSacramento
Name the following United States state capitals. This city was the terminus of the Natchez Trace. The resemblance of its AT&T building to a comic book hero gave it the nickname ˈˈBatman Building.ˈˈ A park located in this city is the site of full-scale replica of the Parthenon⸴ and it is the site of the Hermitage⸴ Andrew Jackson's house. The Grand Ole Opry is a performing venue in this city⸴ which earned the nickname ˈˈMusic City⸴ U.S.A.ˈˈ because of its influence on country music. Name this city on the Cumberland River⸴ the capital of Tennessee. - ttddNashville
Name these bodies of water. This principal Southeast Asian river flows through the national capitals of Vietnam⸴ Cambodia⸴ and Laos. - ttddMekong River
Name these bodies of water. This deepest lake in the world is drained by the Angara River. It is located near the Irkutsk Oblast in Siberia. - ttddLake Baikal
Name these bodies of water. Natural gas released during a 1927 earthquake in this body of water created five hundred meter flames near its shore. The Black Death may have been spread to Europe through Caffa⸴ a Genoese colony on this body. A region on this body of water⸴ Abkhazia⸴ saw fighting during the 2008 war in South Ossetia. This body is connected to the Sea of Azov by the Strait of Kerch⸴ while the Bosporus Strait connects it to the Sea of Marmara. The Crimean Peninsula juts into what sea that is bordered by Turkey⸴ Russia⸴ and Georgia? - ttddBlack Sea
Name these North American islands. This Canadian island⸴ which shares its name with the most populous city in British Columbia⸴ is separated from the United States by the Strait of Juan de Fuca. - ttddVancouver Island
Name these North American islands. This island off the southern coast of Florida is only ninety miles north of Cuba. Ernest Hemingway's house is a popular tourist attraction on this island. - ttddKey West [do NOT accept or prompt on partial answer]
Name these North American islands. A mountain on this island consists of two cylindrical rock towers⸴ while another has the highest vertical drop in the world. That is Mount Asgard⸴ which with Mount Odin⸴ is located in this island's Auyuittuq National Park. This island's city of Frobisher Bay was renamed to Iqaluit and serves as the capital Nunavut. A bay that shares its name with this island separates it from Greenland. Name this largest Canadian island⸴ which is named after a British explorer. - ttddBaffin Island
Give the following European cities. Croke Park and O'Connell Street are located in this Irish capital city that lies on the mouth of the River Liffey. - ttddDublin [or Baile Átha Cliath]
Give the following European cities. This capital of Bavaria annually hosts Oktoberfest⸴ the largest beer festival in the world. - ttddMunich [or München; or Minga]
Give the following European cities. Renzo Piano designed a green⸴ boat-shaped science museum in this city called NEMO. In 2013⸴ an art museum in this city was reopened after a ten year renovation. This city is serviced by Schipol Airport⸴ which is a hub for KLM. The Rijksmuseum is located here. Unlike other cities in its country⸴ tourists are allowed in its coffee shops⸴ which legally sell cannabis. This city on the Amstel River is over six feet below sea level. Name this capital and largest city in the Netherlands⸴ which is famous for its many canals. - ttddAmsterdam
Name these North American lakes. The Truckee River drains this lake on the border between California and Nevada⸴ which was created following the last ice age. - ttddLake Tahoe
Name these North American lakes. This Canadian lake is drained by the Mackenzie River. Yellowknife⸴ the capital of the Northwest Territories⸴ is located on the shore of this lake. - ttddGreat Slave Lake [do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈSlave Lakeˈˈ]
Name these North American lakes. Washington Island is found near a strait in this body of water that was named for its frequent shipwrecks. James Strang founded a Mormon ˈˈkingdomˈˈ on its Beaver Island. This lake's Northerly Island contains Henry Moore's sculpture Man Enters the Cosmos⸴ outside Adler Planetarium. The Lake Shore Drive expressway runs alongside this lake⸴ which is connected to Lake Huron by the Straits of Mackinac. Chicago is found on the shore of what third largest Great Lake⸴ which shares its name with a state? - ttddLake Michigan
Give the following related to the geography of coffee production. This country's city of Maracaibo exports a namesake type of coffee. - ttddBolivarian Republic of Venezuela
Give the following related to the geography of coffee production. The state named after this most populous Brazilian city has historically been an important coffee producer. - ttddSão Paulo
Give the following related to the geography of coffee production. This country's departments of San Marcos and Quetzaltenango are important coffee producers in its Anacafé association. This country's Lake Izabal is the site of the port city of Puerto Barrios. The ˈˈZona Vivaˈˈ is the entertainment and tourism center in this country's capital. This country's Petén department contains the Mayan ruins at Tikal. The Spanish capital of Central America was this country's city of Antigua. Name this Central American country that shares the Yucatán Peninsula with Belize and Mexico. - ttddRepublic of Guatemala
Answer the following questions about Asian islands. This island⸴ which was formally called Formosa⸴ is separated from the mainland by a namesake strait. The Pescadores Islands are found in that strait. - ttddTaiwan
Answer the following questions about Asian islands. The 1972 Winter Olympic Games were held in this island's largest city⸴ Sapporo. It is the northernmost of the four main islands of Japan and can be reached using the Seikan Tunnel that runs underneath the Tsugaru Strait. - ttddHokkaido [or Yezo]
Answer the following questions about Asian islands. Zheng He fought a band of five thousand pirates at this island's city of Palembang. A bottleneck in the human population was caused by the eruption of a supervolcano on this island⸴ whose caldera now contains Lake Toba. In 2004⸴ an Indian Ocean tsunami originating off the west coast of this island destroyed its province of Aceh. The Strait of Malacca separates this island from the Malay Peninsula⸴ while the Sunda Strait separates it from Java. Name this Indonesian island that is home to a namesake tiger. - ttddSumatra [or Sumatera]
Name the following related to forests. Aokigahara (ay-oh-kih-gah-har-ah) Forest is located at the base of this mountain⸴ which can be viewed from nearby Lake Ashi (ah-shee) within the city of Hakone (hah-koh-nay). - ttddMount Fuji [or Fuji-san or Fujiyama]
Name the following related to forests. Sinharaja Forest is part of a protected nature reserve on this island⸴ which is separated from the mainland by the Palk Strait. - ttddSri Lanka (shree LAHN-kuh) [prompt on ˈˈCeylonˈˈ]
Name the following related to forests. Unusual events that have occurred within this nation's Hoia Baciu (HOY-uh BAH-choo) Forest have resulted in it being referred to as the ˈˈBermuda Triangle ofˈˈ this country. The legislature of this nation meets in the incredibly large Palace of Parliament. The largest port city within this country is Constanta. This nation's entire border with its northeastern neighbor is formed by the Prut (proot) River; that neighboring country is Moldova. This country contains a vast majority of the Southern Carpathian mountain range⸴ which formed part of the border of the historical region of Transylvania. Name this eastern European nation whose capital is Bucharest (BOO-kah-ˈˈrestˈˈ). - ttddRomania
Name these African nations. This nation contains the world's largest reservoir by surface area⸴ Lake Volta⸴ which was formed by the construction of the Akosombo Dam. - ttddGhana (GAH-nuh) [or Republic of Ghana]
Name these African nations. This small nation on the Horn of Africa has its capital city located along the Gulf of Tadjoura at the western end of the Gulf of Aden. - ttddDjibouti (jih-BOO-tee) [or Republic of Djibouti or Republique de Djibouti or Jumhuriyat Jibuti]
Name these African nations. This nation's capital city contains the Iron House⸴ a building that was constructed entirely of steel and designed by Gustave Eiffel. Part of this country's northern border is formed by the Ruvuma River. The largest river in this nation flows through the Cahora Bassa reservoir before accepting flow from the Shire River. The southeast portion of Lake Nyasa is controlled by this former Portuguese colony⸴ which surrounds the southern half of the nation of Malawi (muh- LAH-wee). This eastern neighbor of Zimbabwe (zihm-ˈˈBOB-wayˈˈ) borders a namesake Indian Ocean channel that separates it from Madagascar. Name this African nation whose capital is Maputo (mah-POO-toh). - ttddMozambique (moh-zahm-BEEK) [or Republic of Mozambique or Republica de Mocambique]
Name the following related to South America. The widest portion of the Andes Mountains contains this plateau region of western Bolivia where Lake Titicaca (tih-tee-KAH-kuh) is located. - ttddAltiplano (ALL-tee-PLAH-noh) [accept Puna; prompt on ˈˈHigh Plainˈˈ or ˈˈHigh Plateauˈˈ]
Name the following related to South America. Puna Island is located within the gulf named after this port city that is the most populous in Ecuador. - ttddGuayaquil (GWY-ah-KEEL) [accept Santiago de Guayaquil]
Name the following related to South America. One public holiday within this nation is preceded by a celebration known as the ˈˈDay of the Little Candles.ˈˈ Mount Monserrate (MAWN-say-RAH-tay) provides views of this nation's capital city⸴ whose namesake river flows through Tequendama Falls. Much of this country's southern border is formed by the Putumayo (ˈˈPOO-too-MY-ohˈˈ) River. The western portion of the Los Llanos (YAH-nohss) region is within this nation⸴ where the Magdalena River ends at the port city of Barranquilla (bah-run-KEE-yuh). The valley between the Cordillera Central and Cordillera Occidental mountain ranges contains its city of Medellin (med-eh-YEEN). Name this country west of Venezuela whose capital is Bogota (boh-guh-TAH). - ttddColombia [or Republic of Colombia or Republica de Colombia]
Name these rivers that form part of an international border. The Shilka and Argun Rivers combine to create this waterway that forms much of the border between China and Russia. - ttddAmur River [or Heilong Jiang]
Name these rivers that form part of an international border. Part of Mauritania's southern border is formed by this river⸴ which empties into the Atlantic Ocean at the port city of Saint-Louis (sahn loo-ee). - ttddSenegal River [or Fleuve Senegal]
Name these rivers that form part of an international border. In 2004⸴ one country initiated construction on the Bystroe Canal to provide a shipping route to this river. Within one city⸴ Gellert Hill provides views of this river as it flows past Margaret Island and Fisherman's Bastion. This river is used to produce hydroelectric power while flowing through a gorge known as the Iron Gates. The Sava River is one tributary of this waterway⸴ which flows through a capital city containing the Schonbrunn (SHURN-brun) Palace. This river begins in Germany's Black Forest and flows through four national capitals⸴ including Budapest and Vienna. Name this second longest European river whose delta is located at the Black Sea along the Ukraine-Romania border. - ttddDanube River [or Donau or Dunaja or Dunav or Dunai or Dunarea]
Identify the following cities. This national capital is situated along the Gulf of Gonave (goh-NAHV) on the eastern side of the Windward Passage. - ttddPort-au-Prince (ˈˈportˈˈ-oh-ˈˈPRINCEˈˈ)
Identify the following cities. This state capital is situated along Port Phillip Bay on the northern side of the Bass Strait. - ttddMelbourne
Identify the following cities. A spiral ramp provides access to the top of a seventeenth century observatory in this city known as the Rundetaarn (ROON-duh-tarn). The King's Garden is an oft-visited park in this city that is directly adjacent to Rosenborg Castle. The airport serving this city is on the island of Amager⸴ which is just east of this city's waterfront district of Nyhavn (noo-HAHN). It is separated from the foreign city of Malmo by the Oresund (UR-uh-sund) strait. This city is at the southern end of the Kattegat (KAT-ih-gat) on the island of Zealand. The Little Mermaid statue and Tivoli Gardens are points of interest in what Scandinavian city that is the capital of Denmark? - ttddCopenhagen [or Kobenhavn]
Name these islands or island groups. Norway controls this archipelago in the Arctic Ocean whose largest island⸴ Spitsbergen⸴ is home to a namesake ˈˈglobal seed vaultˈˈ that preserves seeds for a large variety of worldwide plants. - ttddSvalbard
Name these islands or island groups. Near the equator⸴ the International Date Line shifts to remain to the east of this Pacific Ocean island nation where a majority of its population lives on the Tarawa (tuh-RAH-wah) atoll. - ttddKiribati (KEER-uh-bahss) [or Republic of Kiribati]
Name these islands or island groups. This island's most populous city contains a memorial to the victims of the 1995 Neftegorsk (NEF-tuh-gorsk) earthquake. The Nivkhs (neefks) are an indigenous people of this island. U.S. Representative Larry McDonald was killed when his commercial airplane was shot down in 1983 while crossing over this island. This island is separated from the mainland by the Strait of Tartary (TAR-tuh-ree) and located on the north side of the La Perouse (lah ˈˈPAIRˈˈ-ooz) Strait. Control over this island was split between two countries by the 1905 Treaty of Portsmouth. This is the northernmost island populated by indigenous people known as Ainu (ˈˈEYE-newˈˈ). The Sea of Okhotsk (ah-KOTSK) is the site of what Russian island north of Hokkaido? - ttddSakhalin (SAHK-uh-leen) Island [accept Saharin or Saghalien or Karafuto or Kuye]
Name these North American bodies of water. Akpatok Island sits within this Canadian bay that is at the southeastern end of the Hudson Strait. It shares its name with the large peninsula to the east of Hudson Bay that forms the northernmost part of the province of Quebec. - ttddUngava Bay [accept Ungava Peninsula]
Name these North American bodies of water. The city of Colon (kuh-LOHN) sits just north of this artificial lake that was created during the construction of the Panama Canal. - ttddGatun (gah-TOON) Lake [or Lago Gatun]
Name these North American bodies of water. This body of water was at the center of a border dispute over the so-called ˈˈCountry Club areaˈˈ that was settled in a 1927 Supreme Court case. Petroglyph National Monument is near the shoreline of this body of water⸴ which was dammed to form the Amistad Reservoir. The San Juan Mountains contain the source of this river⸴ which is crossed by three bridges heading north out of the city of Matamoros. This waterway meets the Pecos (PAY-kohss) River after flowing through Big Bend National Park. The cities of Brownsville⸴ Albuquerque⸴ and El Paso lie along what river that forms the border between Texas and Mexico? - ttddRio Grande [or Rio Bravo del Norte; prompt on ˈˈGrandeˈˈ]
Name the following related to deserts. The Sossusvlei (SOH-soss-vlay) salt pan is one notable feature of this desert⸴ which borders the so-called Skeleton Coast and surrounds the city of Walvis Bay. - ttddNamib Desert [do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈNamibiaˈˈ]
Name the following related to deserts. This largest desert entirely within China is located in the Tarim Basin within the Xinjiang province. - ttddTaklamakan Desert
Name the following related to deserts. This nation is home to a small desert area with unique rock formations known as Pobiti Kamani⸴ or ˈˈThe Stone Forest.ˈˈ Boris' Garden is a large park in the capital of this country⸴ which was once known as Serdica and is situated along the Iskar River. The southern border of this nation runs through the Rhodope (ROD-uh-pee) Mountains. A larger version of this country was given its autonomy by the 1878 Treaty of San Stefano. The northern portion of the historical region of Thrace is in this present-day country⸴ which contains the port city of Varna along the Black Sea. Macedonia's eastern neighbor is what Balkan nation whose capital is Sofia? - ttddBulgaria [or Republic of Bulgaria or Republika Balgariya]
Name the following related to mountains or mountain ranges. This 13⸴671 foot high mountain in Morocco is the highest peak within the Atlas Mountains. - ttddJebel Toubkal (JEH-bul toob-KAHL)
Name the following related to mountains or mountain ranges. Antarctica's highest point⸴ Vinson Massif⸴ is a part of this mountain range that is just west of the Ronne (ROH- nuh) Ice Shelf. - ttddEllsworth Mountains
Name the following related to mountains or mountain ranges. In 2002⸴ the ICJ awarded this nation control over the disputed islands of Ligitan and Sipadan⸴ which are just south of Darvel Bay. This nation's highest point is within the Crocker Range. The Klang Valley contains the capital of this country⸴ which is home to perhaps the best known building designed by Cesar Pelli (SAY-sar PAY-yee). The planned city of Putrajaya (POO-trah-JYE-uh) serves as the administrative capital of this nation⸴ which is separated from a much smaller country by the Strait of Johor. This country's easternmost states⸴ Sabah and Sarawak⸴ are located on the island of Borneo along with the nations of Brunei (broo-NYE) and Indonesia. Name this southeast Asian country that contains the Petronas (puh-TROH-nuss) Towers in its capital⸴ Kuala Lumpur (koo-AH-lah lum-ˈˈPOORˈˈ). - ttddMalaysia
Name these Asian nations. Tonle (TAWN-lay) Sap is the largest lake in this nation⸴ whose flag features the likeness of the twelfth century temple complex Angkor Wat. - ttddKingdom of Cambodia [or Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea]
Name these Asian nations. This largest landlocked country in the world moved its capital out of its largest city⸴ Almaty⸴ in 1997. - ttddRepublic of Kazakhstan (KAH-zak-stan) [or Qazaqstan Respublikasy]
Name these Asian nations. One city in this nation sits along a namesake gulf that borders the Karaburun Peninsula. This country's capital city is just northwest of the saline (SAY-leen) Lake Tuz (tooz). This nation's namesake ˈˈRivieraˈˈ contains the ruins of the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus (HAL-ih-kar-NASS-us). The northwestern portion of this nation is in the historical region of Thrace (thrayss). Elevated locations in this country include the Taurus Mountains along its southern coast and Mount Ararat near its border with Iran. Its largest city straddles the Bosporus Strait and is the site of the Hagia Sophia (ˈˈHIˈˈ-yuh soh-FEE-uh). Name this nation that is home to the cities of Ankara and Istanbul. - ttddRepublic of Turkey [or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti]
Name the following related to American mountain peaks that are the highest in their respective states. This California mountain is the highest peak in the contiguous U.S. - ttddMount Whitney
Name the following related to American mountain peaks that are the highest in their respective states. Mount Mitchell⸴ which is the highest American peak east of the Mississippi⸴ is located in this state. - ttddNorth Carolina
Name the following related to American mountain peaks that are the highest in their respective states. The Devil's Kitchen Headwall is one landmark on this (*) state's highest mountain⸴ which is circled by the forty- mile Timberline Trail. This state's northern border runs near Multnomah Falls⸴ which is a short drive west from the Bonneville Dam. One body of water in this state is home to an upright-floating log known as the ˈˈOld Man of the Lake.ˈˈ That lake in this state contains Wizard Island and was formed by the collapse of Mount Mazama (muh-ZAH-muh). Along this state's border with Idaho⸴ the Snake River flows through Hells Canyon. Mount Hood and Crater Lake are sites in what state that contains the cities of Salem and Portland? - ttddOregon [accept Mount Hood before (*)]
Name the following related to Australia. Brisbane is the most populous port city bordering this large sea that receives flow from the Burdekin River along the northeast coast of Australia. - ttddCoral Sea
Name the following related to Australia. The Swan Bell Tower is a point of interest in this state capital that is the most populous city along Australia's west coast. - ttddPerth
Name the following related to Australia. The coastline of this island near Pelabuhanratu (pell-ah-BOO-hahn-RAH-too) Bay is the first land you would encounter when traveling due north from Australia's Christmas Island. The western end of this island is within Ujung Kulon (OO-jung KOO-lon) National Park⸴ which contains the last known habitat of its namesake rhino species. Hundreds of people on this island were killed during the 2010 eruption of Mount Merapi (meh-RAH-pee)⸴ which is about half way between the cities of Bandung (BAHN-dung) and Surabaya (soo-ruh-BYE-uh). This island on the southeast side of the Sunda (SOON-duh) Strait is situated between Bali (BAH-lee) and Sumatra (soo-MAH-truh). Name this most populous island in the world that contains Jakarta⸴ the capital of Indonesia. - ttddJava [or Jawa]
Name these African bodies of water. The French island of Mayotte (may-YOT) is located in this body of water that separates Madagascar from mainland Africa. - ttddMozambique (moh-zahm-BEEK) Channel
Name these African bodies of water. The Bight of Biafra is part of this larger body of water off Africa's west coast that contains the intersection of the Equator and Prime Meridian. - ttddGulf of Guinea
Name these African bodies of water. The Irebu Channel connects this body of water to Lake Tumba. This body of water contains Bamu Island just northeast of the second largest French-speaking city in the world after Paris. This body of water runs through a strip of land that separates the exclave of Cabinda (kuh-BIN-duh) from the rest of its country. The Ubangi (oo-BAHN-jee) River empties into this body of water⸴ which flows past two national capitals just downstream of the Malebo (mah-LAY-boh) Pool. The Lualaba (loo-uh-LAH-buh) River is the source of this river⸴ which forms part of the northwest border of Angola before emptying into the Atlantic Ocean. Name this second longest river in Africa that flows past Brazzaville and Kinshasa⸴ which are the capitals of two namesake countries. - ttddCongo River [or Zaire (zye-EER) River; accept le fleuve Congo]
Name these famous European landmarks. This prison and castle on the Thames was built by William the Conqueror in 1078. It currently houses the Crown Jewels. - ttddTower of London [or Her Majestyˈs Royal Palace and Fortress; prompt on partial answer]
Name these famous European landmarks. This Berlin landmark consists of twelve columns and a chariot drawn by four horses. It was the site of a wall crossing during the Cold War. - ttddBrandenburg Gate [or Brandenburg Tor; prompt on partial answer]
Name these famous European landmarks. Alexandre Falguière designed a similar chariot sculpture that used to sit atop this landmark. The sculptures Departure of the Volunteers and Resistance and Peace are found within this landmark⸴ which was designed by Jean Chalgrin. An eternal flame at this landmark inspired a similar one at JFK's grave in Arlington National Cemetery. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is found underneath this structure⸴ which is located at the center of Place Charles de Gaulle. Name this Parisian landmark that was built to honor French soldiers during the Napoleonic Wars. - ttddArc de Triomphe de lˈÉtoile [or Triumphal Arch of the Star]
Name these landlocked nations. The Panj and Amu Darya Rivers form much of the northern border of this Asian nation that one would cross into shortly after traveling west through the Khyber Pass. - ttddIslamic Republic of Afghanistan [or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Afghanistan]
Name these landlocked nations. The Logone (loh-GOHN) and Chari Rivers meet in the capital city of this African nation that is Sudan's western neighbor. - ttddRepublic of Chad [or Republique du Tchad or Jumhuriyat Tshad]
Name these landlocked nations. Despite not yet being a saint⸴ Jan (yahn) Sarkander was sculpted into the Holy Trinity Column that was constructed in this nation's city of Olomouc (AH-lah-mootz). The capital city of this country contains a six hundred year old astronomical clock within its Old Town Square⸴ which is just east of Charles Bridge. The historic region of Moravia is in this present-day country⸴ which contains the source of the Elbe (ELL-buh) River in its Bohemia region. This was the westernmost of the two countries formed in 1993 by the Velvet Divorce. Name this European nation that split from Slovakia and has its capital at Prague (prahg)? - ttddCzech Republic [or Czechia or Cesko or Ceska Republika; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈCzechoslovakiaˈˈ]
Name these cities. This European capital shares its name with a gulf along the eastern end of the Baltic Sea. - ttddRiga [accept Gulf of Riga]
Name these cities. This Asian city⸴ which served as its nation's capital until 2006⸴ is located within the Irrawaddy River delta. - ttddYangon [or Rangoon]
Name these cities. This city's Lapa neighborhood is home to such sites as the Selaron Steps and the remains of the Carioca Aqueduct. This city's Botanical Gardens are located just west of the heavily polluted Rodrigo de Freitas (FRAY-tiss) Lagoon. Elevated views of this city are provided within the urban Tijuca (tih-JOO-kuh) Forest. Near the mouth of Guanabara Bay⸴ visitors to this city can ride a cable car to the top of Sugarloaf Mountain. Ipanema (ee-pah-NEE-mah) and Copacabana (KOH-puh-kuh-BAN-uh) are two popular beaches in this city⸴ where the Corcovado Mountain is topped by a statue of Jesus titled Christ the Redeemer. Name this Brazilian city that hosted the most recent Summer Olympics. - ttddRio de Janeiro (REE-oh day juh-NAIR-oh) [prompt on ˈˈRioˈˈ]
Name these peninsulas. This peninsula in Egypt lies between the Mediterranean and Red seas and serves as a land bridge between Africa and Asia. - ttddSinai Peninsula
Name these peninsulas. The city of Tijuana is on this peninsula that separates the Pacific Ocean and Gulf of California. The Coronado Islands near this peninsula were mistakenly shelled by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard. - ttddBaja California peninsula
Name these peninsulas. This peninsula contains the largest frankincense producing region⸴ Dhofar⸴ which was the site of a Soviet- supported rebellion. This peninsula contains the largest sand desert in the world⸴ the Rub' al Khali⸴ and it has historically been divided into the Najd and the Hejaz. The bombing of the USS Cole took place near Aden in the southern part of this region⸴ which is separated by the Red Sea from Africa. Name this Asian peninsula that contains the countries of Qatar⸴ Oman⸴ and Yemen. - ttddArabian Peninsula
Name these bodies of water. The Furneaux (FUR-noh) Island Group is located in this body of water that separates Tasmania from Australia. - ttddBass Strait
Name these bodies of water. Digya National Park borders the coastline of this African lake that was formed by the construction of the Akosombo Dam in Ghana. - ttddLake Volta
Name these bodies of water. One island in this body of water is home to a deadly motorcycle ˈˈtourist trophy raceˈˈ that takes place annually on the Snaefell (SNAY-fell) Mountain Course. One river that flows into this body of water is crossed by the (*) Ha'penny (ˈˈHAY-pennyˈˈ) Bridge. Another river that empties into it is the site of (**) Albert Dock⸴ which contains the Merseyside Maritime Museum. Cardigan Bay is part of this larger body of water⸴ which borders the coastline of the county of Cumbria. The North Channel connects the Firth of Clyde to this sea⸴ which is on the north side of St. George's Channel. The Isle of Man is within what sea that borders the coastline of Dublin? - ttddIrish Sea [or Muir Eireann; do not accept answers involving ˈˈIrelandˈˈ; prompt on ˈˈDublin Bayˈˈ after (*); prompt on ˈˈLiverpool Bayˈˈ after (**)]
Name these U.S. National Parks. An overlook named Dante's View provides panoramic glimpses of this national park⸴ which contains a salt pan known as the Devil's Golf Course. - ttddDeath Valley National Park
Name these U.S. National Parks. Schoodic Peninsula comprises the easternmost portion of this national park⸴ in which visitors may consume tea and popovers at the Jordan Pond House or hike to the top of Cadillac Mountain. - ttddAcadia National Park
Name these U.S. National Parks. One scenic overlook within this national park is at Toroweap Point⸴ from which one can view the Lava Falls Rapid. The northeastern tip of this national park borders the Vermilion Cliffs National Monument. The Bright Angel Trail is a popular hike in this park⸴ which divides the two separate sections of the Kaibab National Forest. The Hualapai (HWAH-luh-ˈˈpieˈˈ) tribe operates a recently-constructed skywalk within this national park⸴ which some visitors explore by riding mules. The South Rim is the most heavily-visited part of what Arizona national park that consists of a gorge created by the Colorado River? - ttddGrand Canyon National Park
Name these islands or island groups. The Koro Sea is surrounded by this Pacific Ocean archipelago whose most populous city is on the island of Viti Levu. - ttddFiji [accept Republic of Fiji]
Name these islands or island groups. Teide (TAY-day) National Park is a frequently-visited location within this Atlantic Ocean archipelago whose largest island is Tenerife (tay-nay-REE-fay). - ttddCanary Islands [or Canaries or Islas Canarias]
Name these islands or island groups. This island's largest city contains a popular food market within its Forodhani Gardens⸴ which overlook a former palace known as the House of Wonders. The old part of this island's largest city is known as Stone Town. In 1896⸴ a sultanate centered on this island fought a thirty-eight minute war with Britain. This island is part of a namesake archipelago that also includes Mafia Island and Pemba Island⸴ the latter of which was⸴ through the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries⸴ the world's largest producer of cloves. This island is just north of the city of Dar es Salaam. Name this island off the east coast of Africa which⸴ in 1964⸴ combined with Tanganyika (tan-gun-YEE-kuh) to form the nation of Tanzania. - ttddZanzibar Island [or Unguja (oon-GOO-jah) Island]
Name the following related to South America. The city of La Paz is situated along the edge of this elevated plateau that is located primarily in western Bolivia. - ttddAltiplano (ALL-tih-PLAH-noh) [or Collao]
Name the following related to South America. This volcano in Ecuador is perhaps best known for being the point on the Earth's surface that is farthest from the center of the Earth. - ttddChimborazo (KEEM-boh-RAHZ-oh)
Name the following related to South America. This nation contains the oldest active Jewish cemetery in the Americas within a city near the Medanos Isthmus. The southeast corner of this nation contains the Gran Sabana (grahn sah-BAH-nah) region within Canaima (kah-NYE- mah) National Park. This country disputes ownership of the Essequibo (eh-say-KEE-boh) region with its eastern neighbor. This country experiences frequent lightning storms at the mouth of the Catatumbo (kah-tah-TOOM-boh) River. The eastern portion of the Llanos (YAH-nohss) is within this country⸴ whose longest river discharges through a delta just south of Trinidad and Tobago. The Orinoco is the chief river of what nation that surrounds Lake Maracaibo and has its capital at Caracas (kah-RAH-kahs)? - ttddBolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela]
Name these European rivers. Zaragoza is the most-populous city along the banks of this river in northern Spain that discharges into the Mediterranean Sea south of Barcelona. - ttddEbro (AY-broh) River
Name these European rivers. Europe's fifth longest river is this waterway that empties into the Sea of Azov just west of the Russian city of Rostov. - ttddDon River
Name these European rivers. One city on the banks of this river is the site of a cathedral that contains the actual heart of Richard the Lionheart. The ˈˈupperˈˈ portion of this river begins where it is met by the Yonne (ˈˈyawnˈˈ) River. Citizens of one city on this river often gauge the seriousness of flooding based on how much of the Zouave (zwahv) statue is covered by water at the Alma Bridge. One building overlooking this river was built as a train station before being converted into an art museum named Orsay. In 2015⸴ nearly one million love padlocks were removed from a pedestrian bridge over this river that is just downstream of the Ile de la Cite (eel duh lah see-TAY)⸴ which contains Notre-Dame (noh-truh-dahm) Cathedral. Name this French river that flows through Rouen (roo-ahn) and Paris. - ttddSeine (sen) River
Name the following related to Asia. The Ili River provides the primary inflow for this endorheic lake that is north of Almaty in eastern Kazakhstan. - ttddLake Balkhash (bahl-KAHSH)
Name the following related to Asia. A mountain previously known as both Stalin Peak and Communism Peak is the highest point within this mountain range of eastern Tajikistan that is situated between the Karakoram and Tian Shan mountain ranges. - ttddPamir Mountains [or Pamir Range or Pamirs]
Name the following related to Asia. Farming in the northern part of this nation is aided by irrigation from the Sirikit Reservoir. An art museum is included as part of the Jim Thompson House within this country⸴ which contains a large and well known floating market at Damnoen Saduak (dahm-nohn sah-doo-awk). This nation controls the popular resort island of Phuket (foo-ket)⸴ and its capital⸴ which contains the Wat Pho (waht foh) temple⸴ is situated along the Chao Phraya (ˈˈchowˈˈ PRY-uh) River. Along with its western neighbor⸴ this country controls a portion of the Isthmus of Kra (krah); that neighbor to the west of this country is Burma. Name this southeast Asian nation where Siam Square is found in the city of Bangkok. - ttddThailand [or Kingdom of Thailand or Prathet Thai or Ratcha Anachak Thai]
Name these African nations. The lower portions of the Ruzizi River form part of the western border of this nation⸴ whose capital city sits along the northeastern coast of Lake Tanganyika. - ttddRepublic of Burundi (buh-ROON-dee) [or Republique du Burundi or Republika yˈu Burundi]
Name these African nations. The Baya and Banda ethnic groups comprise a majority of the population of this nation whose capital city lies along the banks of the Ubangi River⸴ which forms part of its southern border before flowing into the Congo River. - ttddCentral African Republic or CAR [or Republique Centrafricaine]
Name these African nations. This nation contains a massive underground lake within its Dragon's Breath Cave. The building that houses this country's legislature has a name that translates as ˈˈInk Palace.ˈˈ This nation contains the Kaokoveld (kah-OH-koh-veld) Desert⸴ which lies south of the Cunene (koo-nay-nuh) River that forms part of its northern border. Only twenty-five miles separate this nation's two most populous port cities⸴ Swakopmund (swah-kohp-MOOND) and Walvis Bay⸴ which both lie along the Skeleton Coast. During its colonial era⸴ it annexed the Caprivi Strip to gain access to the Zambezi River. The name of its capital was derived from the Afrikaans for ˈˈwind corner.ˈˈ A similarly named desert runs along the coast of what country in southwest Africa whose capital is Windhoek (VINT-ˈˈhookˈˈ)? - ttddRepublic of Namibia (nuh-MIB-ee-uh) [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈNamibˈˈ or ˈˈNamib Desertˈˈ]
Name these lakes. This endorheic (en-doh-REE-ick) lake in the Altiplano region of Bolivia is fed primarily by the Desaguadero River. As a result of an ongoing drought⸴ this lake has been dried up since the end of 2015. - ttddLake Poopo (poh-oh-POH)
Name these lakes. Europe's fifth largest lake is this body of water along Estonia's eastern border that is drained by the Narva River. - ttddLake Peipus [accept Peipsi-Pihkva jarv]
Name these lakes. This lake was the site of a brief skirmish early in World War I in which Germans were attacked by the British ship Gwendolen. Two islands within this lake are exclaves named Chizumulu and Likoma. The Ruhuhu (roo-HOO-hoo) River empties into this lake⸴ which is primarily controlled by a nation whose second largest city is Blantyre (BLAN- ˈˈtireˈˈ). The Shire River is the lone outlet of this lake⸴ which is at the southern end of the East African Rift. The northeastern portion of this lake is the subject of a border dispute between Tanzania and its namesake country. Name this African lake whose namesake nation has its capital at Lilongwe (lih-LAWNG-way). - ttddLake Malawi or Lake Nyasa [accept Lago Niassa]
Identify the following cities which are the largest in their country⸴ but are not the capital. The Royal Moroccan Navy is headquartered in what city on the Atlantic Ocean that is the largest in Morocco? - ttddCasablanca
Identify the following cities which are the largest in their country⸴ but are not the capital. What city located on the Arabian Sea is the largest city in Pakistan? - ttddKarachi
Identify the following cities which are the largest in their country⸴ but are not the capital. This city's Cabbagetown neighborhood is so named due to a 19th century tradition of individuals in this city growing cabbage in their front yards. This city's district of Scarborough is home to the Rouge National Urban Park. This city's Nathan Phillips Square was renovated for the 2015 Pan- American Games. This city's Royal Alexandra Theatre is the oldest continuously operating theatres in North America. A popular tourist attraction in this city was the world's tallest tower from 1975-2007. Rogers Centre is a sports venue in what city that is the site of the CN Tower. - ttddToronto
Answer these questions about deserts. The Okavango River bisects what African desert that comprises the majority of the country of Botswana? - ttddKalahari Desert
Answer these questions about deserts. The rain shadow of the Andes Mountains helped create what driest desert in the world that is located in Chile and Peru? - ttddAtacama Desert
Answer these questions about deserts. The Garlock Fault runs through this desert beginning at the base of the Tehachapi Mountains. The Pisgah Crater is a volcano that is forming in a basin located in this desert. Charleston Peak is the highest point in this desert whose lowest point is the Badwater Basin. The southern boundary of this desert is marked by the San Gabriel and San Bernardino Mountains. Cities in this desert include Hurricane⸴ Barstow⸴ and Las Vegas. Identify this desert of the American southwest that is the site of Death Valley. - ttddMojave Desert
Answer these questions about maps and their production. What Flemish cartographer is best-known for creating a map projection that greatly enlarges polar areas⸴ such as Greenland and Antarctica? This man's namesake projection is used for water navigation. - ttddGerardus Mercator
Answer these questions about maps and their production. What other map projection presents regions of equal size as having equal area and is often considered an alternative to the Mercator projection. This projection is named for James Gall and a German historian. - ttddPeters projection
Answer these questions about maps and their production. This region comprises one-fifth of the map in a Miller projection⸴ which is a variation of the Mercator projection. This region is cut into four pieces in a Goode Homolosine projection and is not presented at all in most Azimuthal projections. The Madrid Protocol banned all mining in this region. France claims the Adelie Land portion of this region while Great Britain⸴ Argentina⸴ and Chile have overlapping claims. Identify this southernmost continent on earth that is the location of the South Pole. - ttddAntarctica
Name these islands. What island⸴ which is the tenth largest in the world but only the second largest in its territory⸴ contains Canada's northernmost point at Cape Columbia? - ttddEllesmere Island
Name these islands. The Minahasa Peninsula forms the northern portion of what Indonesian island that is the eleventh largest in the world and located on the east side of the Makassar Strait? - ttddSulawesi [or Celebes]
Name these islands. This island's Wilpattu National Park features many rainwater-filled depressions known locally as villus (vih-looz). The Vedda people are indigenous to this island⸴ whose nearest mainland neighbor is the Coromandel Coast. The Kingdom of Kandy (KAHN-dee) arose on this island⸴ the northern end of which consists of the Jaffna Peninsula. Limestone formations that extend off the northwest coast of this island are known as Adam's Bridge. The Gulf of Mannar is off the western coast of this island⸴ which is separated from the mainland by the Palk Strait. The largest ethnic group on this island is the Sinhalese. Ceylon (ˈˈsay-LAWNˈˈ) was the former name of what Indian Ocean island that contains the city of Colombo? - ttddSri Lanka [or Shri Lamka or Ilankai]
Identify these countries where annual pilgrimages occur. Many Zoroastrians take annual pilgrimages to the Azargoshasb Fire Temple which is located in the Azerbaijan province of what Middle Eastern country? - ttddIran
Identify these countries where annual pilgrimages occur. Each year⸴ tens of millions of Shi'ite Muslims make a pilgrimage to the city of Karbala in what Middle Eastern county? - ttddIraq
Identify these countries where annual pilgrimages occur. It's not in the Middle East⸴ but this country's Central Valley is home to its capital⸴ the provinces of Heredia [ay-ray-dee-ah] and Alajuela [ah-lah-hway-lah]⸴ and the Poas volcano. A pilgrimage is taken yearly to a church with a statue of the Black Madonna in this nation's city of Cartago. The National System of Conservation Areas⸴ or SINAC⸴ manages Tortuguero and Manuel Antonio⸴ two national parks in this nation that has the largest percentage of protected land in the world. San Jose is the capital of what Central American country? - ttddCosta Rica
Identify these bodies of water. What lake located near St. Petersburg⸴ Russia is the largest freshwater lake in the world? - ttddLake Ladoga
Identify these bodies of water. What lake located southeast of Lake Tanganyika is named for an African country and is also known as Lake Nyasa? - ttddLake Malawi
Identify these bodies of water. The Tammany Trace lies along the northern shore of this body of water. The cities of Kenner and Metairie [meta-ree] lie on the north shore of this body of water. The Bonnet Carre Spillway diverts waters from the Mississippi River to flow into this lake. The longest continuous bridge over water in the world crosses this lake. Hurricanes Rita and Katrina pushed water from this lake into a city that lies to its south. Identify this Louisiana lake to the north of New Orleans. - ttddLake Pontchartrain
Identify these cities in the western hemisphere. In 1998⸴ flooding from Hurricane Mitch destroyed much of what capital city of Honduras? - ttddTegucigalpa
Identify these cities in the western hemisphere. The capital of Belize moved to what interior city in 1961 after the coastal Belize City was destroyed by Hurricane Hattie? - ttddBelmopan
Identify these cities in the western hemisphere. A building in this city is home to a full scale replica of the Santa Maria. A downtown arts district in this city is named in honor of Winston Churchill. In 1915⸴ this city was devastated by a flood of the North Saskatchewan River. It's not in the United States⸴ but this city is home to the largest shopping mall in North America. This city is the northernmost city in North America with a population of over one million people. Identify this fifth largest Canadian city that is the capital of the province of Alberta. - ttddEdmonton
Name these Asian rivers. The Kara Su and Murat Su combine to form this river which⸴ along with the Tigris River⸴ flows through the region known as Mesopotamia. - ttddEuphrates (yoo-FRAY-teez) River [or al-Furat]
Name these Asian rivers. The Bay of Bengal receives the delta of this chief river of northeastern India that is holy to practitioners of Hinduism. - ttddGanges (GAN-jeez) River [or Ganga River]
Name these Asian rivers. The Fengdu Ghost City is a notable tourist attraction along this river⸴ into which the Poyang Lake empties. This river was the last known home of the baiji (ˈˈbyeˈˈ-JEE) dolphin⸴ which was declared functionally extinct in 2006. The world's longest bridge⸴ the Danyang-Kunshan⸴ runs along this river's delta. This river flows through the cities of Wuhan⸴ where it meets the Han River⸴ and Chongqing (CHONG-ching) before emptying into the East China Sea. The Three Gorges Dam was constructed on what Chinese river that flows past the city of Shanghai and is the world's third longest? - ttddYangtze River [or Chang Jiang]
Name these African nations. The western terminus of the Atlas Mountains is in this nation that is directly to the north of the territory of Western Sahara⸴ over which this nation disputes ownership. - ttddKingdom of Morocco [or al-Mamlakah al-Maghribiyah]
Name these African nations. The southwestern shores of Lake Chad border what largest oil-producing nation in Africa that is directly north of the Bight of Biafra⸴ an arm of the Gulf of Guinea. - ttddFederal Republic of Nigeria
Name these African nations. The extreme north part of this nation contains colorful hot springs within a volcanic crater named Dallol⸴ which is within the Danakil Depression and recognized as having the hottest average temperature in the world. UNESCO established a World Heritage Site at the ancient ruins of its city of Axum (AHK-soom). The north end of Lake Turkana is controlled by this nation⸴ as is all of Lake Tana⸴ which is the source of the Blue Nile River. It disputes a border with its northern neighbor⸴ Eritrea⸴ which gained independence from this nation. Sudan⸴ South Sudan⸴ Kenya⸴ Djibouti (jih-BOO- tee)⸴ and Somalia also share borders with what East African nation whose capital is Addis Ababa? - ttddFederal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia [or Ityopˈiya Federalawi Demokrasiyawi Ripeblik]
Name these American rivers. The cities of Laredo and El Paso lie along the banks of this river which forms the border between Texas and Mexico. - ttddRio Grande [or Rio Bravo del Norte]
Name these American rivers. The Shenandoah and Anacostia Rivers are tributary to this waterway that empties into Chesapeake Bay and separates Arlington County⸴ Virginia from Washington D.C. - ttddPotomac (puh-TOH-mik) River
Name these American rivers. The shipwreck of the Peter Iredale is visible near the mouth of this river⸴ which forms the southern and eastern borders of the Colville Indian Reservation. This river receives flow from the Multnomah Falls just downstream from the Bonneville Dam within its namesake gorge. The cities of The Dalles and Astoria border this river⸴ on which the Franklin D. Roosevelt Lake is located. The Snake River is this river's largest tributary⸴ and it is harnessed for hydroelectric power by the Grand Coulee Dam. Name this chief river of the Pacific Northwest which forms much of the border between Oregon and Washington. - ttddColumbia River
Name these South American nations. The Rio Negro bisects this nation before flowing into a namesake river⸴ that then empties into the Rio de la Plata estuary along this nation's southern border. - ttddOriental Republic of Uruguay (YOOR-uh-gway) [or Republica Oriental del Uruguay]
Name these South American nations. The Gulf of Guayaquil (GWY-ah-keel) takes its name from the most populous city in this nation within the Andes Mountains that controls the Galapagos Islands. - ttddRepublic of Ecuador [or Republica del Ecuador]
Name these South American nations. This nation borders a series of straits known as the Dragon's Mouths. The southeast portion of this nation contains Canaima National Park⸴ which is dominated by mesa-like formations known as tepuis (TAY-pweez). This nation controls the Tablazo Strait and a body of water that sees frequent lightning strikes at the mouth of the Catatumbo River. Its longest river⸴ the Orinoco⸴ receives the water that flows through this nation's Angel Falls⸴ which is the highest waterfall in the world. The island nation of Trinidad and Tobago is just off the coast of what country which controls Lake Maracaibo and has its capital at Caracas (kah-RAH-kahs)? - ttddBolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela]
Name these mountain ranges. The Novaya Zemlya (NOH-vuh-yuh zem-lee-YAH) archipelago is a northern extension of this mountain range that lies along the continental border that splits Russia into European and Asian sides. - ttddUral Mountains [or Urals or Uralsky Khrebet]
Name these mountain ranges. Mont Blanc is the highest peak in this European mountain range that dominates the geography of Switzerland and western Austria. - ttddAlps [accept Alpine Mountains]
Name these mountain ranges. Longs Peak is one of most notable features within this mountain range's namesake national park. This range is at the west end of the Laurentian Divide⸴ and one part of this range is traversed by the Icefields Parkway⸴ which runs north from Lake Louise into Jasper National Park. The Sawatch [suh-ˈˈWATCHˈˈ] and Bitterroot Ranges are sub-ranges of these mountains⸴ which include both Mount Elbert and Pikes Peak. These mountains contain the world's largest concentration of geysers within Yellowstone National Park. Name this North American mountain range which runs from British Columbia to New Mexico. - ttddRocky Mountains or Rockies [accept Canadian Rocky Mountains or Canadian Rockies]
Name these islands. The Mona Passage separates Puerto Rico from this Caribbean island that contains the nations of Haiti and Santo Domingo. - ttddHispaniola (hih-span-YOH-lah) [or La Espanola]
Name these islands. The Strait of Malacca separates the Malay Peninsula from this largest all-Indonesian island whose most populous city is Medan. - ttddSumatra [or Sumatera]
Name these islands. The remains of a human known as the Cheddar Man were discovered in a namesake gorge on this island. To the northwest of this island is a strait known as The Minch⸴ and the western terminus of its Penwith Peninsula is known as ˈˈLand's End.ˈˈ The body of water directly east of this island has a shallow area known as Dogger Bank. Ben Nevis is the highest mountain on this island⸴ which is directly south of the Orkney Islands. The Severn is the longest river on this island⸴ which the Strait of Dover separates from France. The River Thames (temz) flows through the most-populous city on what largest European island which is directly east of Ireland? - ttddGreat Britain [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈUnited Kingdom⸴ˈˈ ˈˈEngland⸴ˈˈ ˈˈScotland⸴ˈˈ or ˈˈWalesˈˈ]
Name these Asian nations. This country's exclave of Musandam borders the south side of the Strait of Hormuz⸴ which is at the west end of a gulf named after this nation. - ttddSultanate of Oman [or Saltanat Uman]
Name these Asian nations. This nation⸴ which contains Lake Balkhash⸴ is the world's largest landlocked nation. - ttddRepublic of Kazakhstan (KAH-zak-STAN) [or Qazaqstan Respublikasy]
Name these Asian nations. The eastern part of this nation is dominated by the Khorat Plateau. Many tourists to this nation flock to the island of Phuket⸴ and its capital⸴ which houses royalty in the Grand Palace⸴ is located on the Chao Phraya (ˈˈchowˈˈ PRY-uh) River. With its western neighbor⸴ this nation shares the Isthmus of Kra⸴ which borders the Andaman Sea and a gulf sharing its name with this country. This nation is at the south end of the opium-production area known as the Golden Triangle⸴ which also includes the nations of Laos (ˈˈlouseˈˈ) and Burma. Siam was the former name of what Southeast Asian nation whose capital is Bangkok? - ttddKingdom of Thailand [or Prathet Thai or Ratcha Anachak Thai]
Name these U.S. states. Fort Pulaski National Monument is within this state⸴ which has part of its western border former by the Chattahoochee River. - ttddGeorgia
Name these U.S. states. Most of prehistoric Lake Bonneville was located within the existing boundaries of this state⸴ which contains both Capital Reef and Canyonlands National Parks. - ttddUtah
Name these U.S. states. The Chena Hot Springs are found within a resort in this state⸴ in which much of the Kobuk River Valley is protected before emptying into the Kotzebue Sound. This state controls Little Diomede (DY-uh-meed) Island⸴ and in 1964 the Good Friday Earthquake led to the relocation of its city of Valdez (val-DEEZ)⸴ which receives an oil pipeline that originates in Prudhoe Bay and crosses the Brooks Range. Prince William Sound and Kodiak Island are off the southern coast of this state⸴ which is bisected by the Yukon River. Mount McKinley is the highest point in what northernmost U.S state whose capital is Juneau? - ttddAlaska
Name these Canadian province or territories. The Klondike Gold Rush occurred in this territory⸴ which borders Alaska and has its capital at Whitehorse. - ttddYukon Territory
Name these Canadian province or territories. The St. Lawrence River flows past the city of Montreal within this province⸴ which has been the subject of an organized sovereignty movement since the late 1960s. - ttddQuebec
Name these Canadian province or territories. The Coast Salish (SAY-lish) people are Canadian aboriginals native to this province. This province borders the Queen Charlotte Strait and contains Kootenay and Yoho National Parks on its eastern border. Whistler is a popular winter sports resort town in this province⸴ and its most populous city is situated at the mouth of the Fraser River. The capital of this province is on an island separated from the mainland by the Strait of Georgia; that island shares its name with its most populous city⸴ which hosted the 2010 Winter Olympics. Name Canada's westernmost province⸴ which has its capital at Victoria and contains the city of Vancouver. - ttddBritish Columbia [prompt on ˈˈBCˈˈ]
Answer these questions about American mountains and mountain ranges. Mount Marcy is the highest point in what mountain range located in upstate New York just north of the Catskill Mountains? - ttddAdirondack Mountains
Answer these questions about American mountains and mountain ranges. Mount Mitchell is the highest point in what mountain range located in eastern Tennessee and western North Carolina that is a subrange of the Appalachian Mountains? - ttddBlue Ridge Mountains
Answer these questions about American mountains and mountain ranges. The northernmost peak in this range is located at the confluence of the Fraser and Thompson Rivers and is known as Lytton Mountain. The southernmost volcanic mountain in this range erupted over 400 times between 1914-1921 and is known as Lassen Peak. Crater Lake is located in this mountain range and was formed from the collapse of this range's Mt. Mazama. Spirit Lake is located on the north side of a mountain in this range where David Johnston was killed following a 1980 volcanic eruption. Mt. Rainier and Mt. St. Helenˈs are located in what volcanic mountain range of the Pacific Northwest? - ttddCascade Mountains OR Cascades
Answer these questions about prominent bodies of water around the world. What South American waterway that flows through Buenos Aires is formed by the confluence of the Parana and Uruguay Rivers? - ttddRío de la Plata (or River of Silver)
Answer these questions about prominent bodies of water around the world. Nizhny Novgorod is the largest city on what Russian river that empties into the Caspian Sea and is the longest river in Europe? - ttddVolga River
Answer these questions about prominent bodies of water around the world. Russia gained control over shipping on this river after the signing of the 1829 Treaty of Adrianople. The island of Ada Kaleh was located in the center of this river before being submerged after the construction of Iron Gate⸴ the largest hydroelectric dam in all of Europe. The construction of the Chain Bridge connected the cities of Buda and Pest⸴ which lie on the shores of this river. This river also flows through the cities of Bratislava⸴ Vienna⸴ and Belgrade. Identify this European river that rises in the Black Forest before emptying into the Black Sea. - ttddDanube River
Identify the following countries based upon the nations that surround them. What African country is bordered to the north by Mali and Niger and to the south by Ivory Coast⸴ Ghana⸴ Togo and Benin? - ttddBurkina Faso
Identify the following countries based upon the nations that surround them. What African country is bordered to the north by Tanzania⸴ to the west by Zambia⸴ and to the south and east by Mozambique? - ttddMalawi
Identify the following countries based upon the nations that surround them. The Badakhshan Province serves as the northernmost region of this country and contains the former base camp of a guerilla group active in this country in the early 1980s. The Amu Darya lies on the border between this country and its northern neighbor. This country borders China due to the presence of a wedge-shaped projection called the Wakhan Corridor. The Hindu Kush extends from the northeastern portion of this country that is bordered on the north by Tajikistan. Identify this Asian nation also bordered by Uzbekistan⸴ Iran⸴ and Pakistan. - ttddAfghanistan
Answer the following related to national borders. Much of the southern border between Thailand and Laos (ˈˈlouseˈˈ) is formed by what river that discharges into the South China Sea near Ho Chi Minh City? - ttddMekong (MAY-kong) River
Answer the following related to national borders. Russia's border with Georgia and Azerbajian (AH-zur-ˈˈbyˈˈ-ZHAHN) runs through what mountain range whose highest peak is Mount Elbrus? - ttddCaucasus (KAW-kuh-suss) Mountains [or Greater Caucasus Mountains; accept Caucasian mountains or Caucasians; do not accept ˈˈLesser Caucasus Mountainsˈˈ]
Answer the following related to national borders. The Chubut (choo-BOOT) River flows through the southern end of this country⸴ the smaller of the two nations whose border runs through the Iguazu (ee-gwah-ZOO) Falls. The president of this nation resides in the Casa Rosada (CAH-suh roh-ZAH-duh)⸴ or ˈˈPink House.ˈˈ This country disputes Britain's control over the South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands. The southern portions of the Gran Chaco (grahn CHAH-koh) and Pampas (PAHM-puhss) regions are within this nation⸴ which controls the eastern part of the Tierra del Fuego (ˈˈtee-AIRˈˈ-ah del FWAY-goh) archipelago. Name this South American nation whose capital is Buenos Aires (BWAY-nohss ˈˈEYE-raceˈˈ). - ttddArgentina [or Argentine Republic or Republica Argentina]
Identify the following lakes. What lake on the California/Nevada border is connected to Pyramid Lake by the Truckee River? This lake is a popular tourist attraction due to its proximity to numerous ski resorts. - ttddLake Tahoe
Identify the following lakes. What lake on the Peru/Bolivia border is the largest lake by volume and second largest lake by area in South America? - ttddLake Titicaca
Identify the following lakes. The northern coast of this lake is home to Sleeping Giant Provincial Park. Madeline and Stockton are the two largest of the Apostle Islands that are located within this lake. In 1975⸴ the SS Edmund Fitzgerald sank in this body of water which drains via the St. Mary's River. Isle Royale is the largest island in this lake that includes the port cities of Duluth and Thunder Bay. Identify this largest freshwater lake in the world that is the largest of the Great Lakes. - ttddLake Superior
Answer these questions about the geography of the southern hemisphere. What archipelago shared by Argentina and Chile is separated from mainland South America by the Strait of Magellan? - ttddTierra del Fuego
Answer these questions about the geography of the southern hemisphere. The Bass Strait separates mainland Australia from what island state to its south which has its capital at Hobart? - ttddTasmania
Answer these questions about the geography of the southern hemisphere. The rainforests of the Atsinanana are the home to six national parks in this country that was home to the now extinct elephant bird. Mayotte is located to the northwest of this country that was colonized by France after having been previously known as the Malagasy Republic. The baobab tree is native to this country that is also the only native home of lemurs in the world. Antananarivo is the capital of what island nation that is separated by the Mozambique Channel from mainland Africa. - ttddMadagascar
Identify these islands or island chains. The fifth largest island in the world is what Canadian island that is located entirely within the territory of Nunavut? - ttddBaffin Island
Identify these islands or island chains. The city of Manila is located on what largest and most populated island in the Philippines? - ttddLuzon
Identify these islands or island chains. The United States maintains Thule Air Base on this island⸴ which is responsible for a portion of the country's missile defense system. Fridtjof Nansen was the first person to cross this island⸴ performing the feat in 1888. The northeastern portion of this island comprises the largest national park in the world. More than 30% of this island's residents live in its capital of Nuuk and this island is the least densely populated island in the world. Identify this island belonging to Denmark that is the largest island in the world. - ttddGreenland
Name the following related to North America. Endicott Island⸴ an artificial island off the coast of Alaska⸴ is utilized for the production of oil in what marginal sea of the Arctic Ocean that receives flow from the Mackenzie River? - ttddBeaufort (BOH-ˈˈfortˈˈ) Sea
Name the following related to North America. Mount Pelee (puh-LAY)⸴ a volcano that killed thousands of people during a 1902 eruption⸴ is the highest point on what French possession that is part of the Windward Islands within the Caribbean Sea? - ttddMartinique (mar-teh-NEEK)
Name the following related to North America. The Kingsley Dam was constructed on one tributary of this river to form Lake McConaughy (mih-CAHN-uh- hay); that tributary to this river also flows past Scotts Bluff National Monument. The mouth of this river is just south of a city in which one can visit the Durham Museum and Henry Doorly Zoo. In 1848⸴ Fort Kearney was established along the banks of this river to assist travelers of the Oregon Trail. The ˈˈnorthˈˈ branch of this river flows near Chimney Rock⸴ while the (*) ˈˈsouthˈˈ branch flows through the city of Denver. Often described as ˈˈa mile wide and an inch deep⸴ˈˈ name this tributary of the Missouri River that is the chief river of Nebraska. - ttddPlatte (plat) River [accept North Platte River; accept South Platte River after (*)]
Name the following related to the geography of Europe. The Church of the Savior on Spilled Blood is a point of interest in this city that is situated at the mouth of the Neva River. - ttddSaint Petersburg [or Sankt-Peterburg]
Name the following related to the geography of Europe. Heraklion (huh-RAK-lee-on) is the most populous city on this island⸴ which contains the notable archaeological site of Knossos (NAW-suss). - ttddCrete [or Kriti or Krete]
Name the following related to the geography of Europe. The coastline of this country borders the Gulf of Saint-Malo⸴ which is just west of the Cotentin Peninsula. The south part of this nation contains an elevated region known as Massif Central. The Azure Coast is controlled by this country⸴ which has part of its eastern border run through the Jura Mountains. This country contains prehistoric cave art within the Lascaux (lah-SKOH) Caves. The Montmartre (mon-MAR-truh) district is in this nation's most populous city⸴ which is upstream of Le Havre (luh hahv) and Rouen (roo-awn). Name this nation in which the Seine (sen) River flows through its capital of Paris. - ttddFrance [or French Republic or Republique francaise]
Name these U.S. states. The Twelve-Mile Circle forms the northern border of this state⸴ which is bisected by a canal connecting a namesake bay with the Chesapeake Bay. - ttddDelaware
Name these U.S. states. This state's Chimney Rock is a National Historic Site along the northern branch of the Platte River⸴ which empties into the Missouri River just south of its most populous city. - ttddNebraska
Name these U.S. states. Within this state⸴ untreated wastewater from fracking affects streams flowing through the Wind River Indian Reservation. Lamar Valley is a popular wildlife viewing area within a national park in this state⸴ whose highest point is Gannett Peak. The first place to be designated a U.S. National Monument was this state's Devils Tower. Within this state⸴ the valley known as Jackson Hole sits just outside of Grand Teton National Park⸴ which is due south of a national park containing the geyser (ˈˈGUYˈˈ-zer) Old Faithful. Name this state that contains most of Yellowstone National Park and has its capital at Cheyenne (ˈˈshy-ANˈˈ). - ttddWyoming
Name these American bodies of water. This waterway⸴ which is part of the so-called ACF (ˈˈA-C-Fˈˈ) River Basin⸴ flows through Atlanta before ultimately forming the southern part of the border between Alabama and Georgia. - ttddChattahoochee River
Name these American bodies of water. Utah's Rainbow Bridge National Monument is located near the shores of this artificial lake created by the construction of Arizona's Glen Canyon Dam. - ttddLake Powell
Name these American bodies of water. This body of water is just north of a city nicknamed ˈˈAmerica's Sweetest Town.ˈˈ This body of water near the city of Clewiston is partially drained by the St. Lucie Canal. This lake is surrounded by the Herbert Hoover dike⸴ which was built after 2⸴500 people died during flooding from a 1928 hurricane. The Kissimmee River is the chief source of this lake⸴ which is drained by the Caloosahatchee (kuh-loo-suh-HAH-chee) River through the city of Fort Myers into the Gulf Mexico. Name this lake to the north of the Everglades that is the largest in Florida. - ttddLake Okeechobee (oh-kee-CHOH-bee)
Name these bodies of water in Africa. Lake Tana is the source of this African river⸴ which ends shortly after flowing into the city of Khartoum (ˈˈcarˈˈ- TOOM) from the east. - ttddBlue Nile [or Abbay or an-Nil al-Azraq; do not prompt on or accept ˈˈNileˈˈ or ˈˈWhite Nileˈˈ]
Name these bodies of water in Africa. This gulf off the western coast of Africa contains the point where the equator and prime meridian intersect. - ttddGulf of Guinea
Name these bodies of water in Africa. The effect of the invasive Nile perch on this body of water is the subject of the documentary Darwin's Nightmare. An airport along this body of water was the site of a 1976 operation to rescue over 100 mostly Israeli hostages. The Kagera (kuh-GEH-ruh) River is the primary feeder of this lake⸴ which borders the town of Entebbe (en- TEH-buh). This lake is due west of Serengeti (sair-en-GHEH-ˈˈteeˈˈ) National Park and forms the shoreline along the national capital of Kampala (kahm-PAH-luh). Uganda⸴ Kenya⸴ and Tanzania (ˈˈtanˈˈ-zuh-NEE-uh) border the shores of what largest African lake⸴ which is named after a British queen? - ttddLake Victoria [or Victoria Nyanza or Nalubaale or Nam Lolwe]
Give the following related to mountains or mountain ranges. This mountain range⸴ which runs north-south along the eastern end of Australia⸴ contains the continent's highest peak⸴ Mount Kosciuszko (kah-zee-OH-skoh or kosh-CHOOSH-koh). - ttddGreat Dividing Range [or Eastern Highlands; prompt on partial answers]
Give the following related to mountains or mountain ranges. A 24⸴000 foot mountain known as ˈˈVictory Peakˈˈ is the highest point in these ˈˈcelestial mountains⸴ˈˈ which are north of the Taklamakan (TAH-kluh-muh-KAHN) Desert and run along China's border with Kyrgyzstan (KEER-guh- stahn). - ttddTian Shan or Tien Shan [or Khan Tengri or Tengri-Too or Tenger Uul]
Give the following related to mountains or mountain ranges. The northeast part of this nation is dominated by the Adrar des Ifoghas (ah-DRAHR dee ee-FOH-gah) mountains⸴ which are located within its Kidal Region. Within this country⸴ the rapidly shrinking Lake Faguibine (FAG-uh-ˈˈbeanˈˈ) is just west of a city that contains Sankore (sahn-KOH-ray) University⸴ which was established in the 14th century. The most populous city in its eastern regions is Gao⸴ which served as the capital of the Songhai (ˈˈSONG-highˈˈ) Empire. The southern boundary of this country borders the nations of Cote d'Ivoire (ˈˈcoatˈˈ dee-VWAR)⸴ Guinea⸴ and Burkina Faso (bur-KEE-nah FAH-soh). Name this West African nation which contains the cities of Bamako (BAH-mah-koh) and Timbuktu. - ttddRepublic of Mali [or Republique du Mali]
Name these South American nations. Mount Chimborazo (cheem-boh-RAH-zoh)⸴ whose peak is the one farthest from the center of the Earth⸴ lies within this country whose most populous city is Guayaquil (GWY-ah-keel). - ttddRepublic of Ecuador [or Republica del Ecuador]
Name these South American nations. Much of the Altiplano (al-ˈˈteeˈˈ-PLAH-noh) plateau is within the western end of this landlocked nation⸴ where Lake Poopo (poh-oh-POH) has completely dried up as of December 2015. - ttddPlurinational State of Bolivia [or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia]
Name these South American nations. This nation borders a body of water known as the Serpent's Mouth. The Schomburgk (SHAHM-burk) Line formed the basis for the eastern border of this nation⸴ which claims the disputed Essequibo (ess-eh-KEE-boh) region. A majority of the table-top mountain formations known as tepuis (TAY-pweez) reside in this nation⸴ which contains the world's highest waterfall. This country⸴ which is the site of Angel Falls⸴ controls much of the Orinoco (oh-rih-NOH-koh) River and surrounds the oil-rich Lake Maracaibo (mah-rah-KYE-boh). Hugo Chavez (OOH-goh CHAH-vez) is a former president of what South American nation whose capital is Caracas? - ttddBolivarian Republic of Venezuela [or Republica Bolivariana de Venezuela]
Name these island nations. Port Vila is the capital of this Pacific Ocean island nation once known as New Hebrides (HEH-brih-deez). It is located just northeast of the New Caledonia archipelago. - ttddRepublic of Vanuatu [or Ripablik blong Vanuatu]
Name these island nations. Nuku'alofa is the capital of this other Pacific island nation that is a part of Polynesia. It is located just southeast of Fiji. - ttddKingdom of Tonga [or Pule'anga Tonga]
Name these island nations. One bird species endemic to this island nation is the bee hummingbird⸴ which can be sighted in such locations as the Vinales (vee-NAH-ˈˈlaceˈˈ) Valley and Zapata (zuh-POT-uh) Swamp. Its city of Moa is a primary hub for the mining of its large reserves of cobalt and nickel. The Gulf of Batabono (bah-tah-BAH-noh) separates this nation's largest island from the Isle of Youth. The Sierra Maestra Mountains run along the eastern end of this nation⸴ which is at the western end of the Windward Passage. The Cayman Islands are due south of this nation⸴ which is on the eastern side of the Yucatan Channel. Its namesake island is the largest in the Greater Antilles. Name this Caribbean island nation whose capital is Havana. - ttddRepublic of Cuba [or Republica de Cuba]
Answer the following related to European geography. The port city of Oulu (OH-loo) is the most populous along this gulf between Sweden and Finland that is the northernmost extension of the Baltic Sea. - ttddGulf of Bothnia [or Bottniska Viken or Pohjan Lahti]
Answer the following related to European geography. Ajaccio (ah-YAHT-choh) is the most populous city on this island that is situated between the Strait of Bonifacio (bahn-ih-FAH-see-oh) and Ligurian (lih-GURR-ee-un) Sea. - ttddCorsica [or Corse]
Answer the following related to European geography. Within this city⸴ a Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is guarded by military personnel called Evzones (EHV-ˈˈzonesˈˈ) next to Syntagma (ˈˈsinˈˈ-ˈˈTAGˈˈ-mah) Square. Kerameikos (ˈˈcareˈˈ-uh-mee-KOHSS) is an archeological site within this city⸴ which can be viewed from the top of Mount Lycabettus (ˈˈlieˈˈ-kuh-ˈˈBETˈˈ-iss). Five caryatid (ˈˈcareˈˈ-ee-ˈˈATˈˈ-id) columns exist at the ruins of the Erechtheion (eh-REK-ˈˈthighˈˈ-on) temple on this city's most notable geographic feature⸴ from which the Elgin Marbles were taken. The first modern Olympics were held in this city⸴ whose Acropolis (uh- KRAW-puh-liss) contains the remains of the Parthenon (ˈˈPARˈˈ-thuh-nahn). Name this capital city of Greece. - ttddAthens⸴ Greece [or Athina or Athenai]
Give the following related to waterfalls. The 2⸴000 foot high Kadamaian (kah-duh-ˈˈMYˈˈ-ihn) Falls are found within this island⸴ which is bordered on its eastern side by the Makassar Strait. It is the largest of the Greater Sunda (SOON-duh) Islands. - ttddBorneo [accept Kalimantan]
Give the following related to waterfalls. Vinnufallet⸴ which may be Europe's tallest waterfall⸴ is found within this nation⸴ the capital of which contains many museums on its Bygdoy (ˈˈBIG-dayˈˈ) Peninsula. This nation also controls the Svalbard (SVAHL-bard) archipelago. - ttddKingdom of Norway [or Kongeriget Norge]
Give the following related to waterfalls. This country is the site of a large meteor impact crater that contains the so-called Vredefort Dome. This nation's Tugela Falls is the second tallest waterfall in the world. In the 1920s⸴ the skull remains of a new Australopithecus (AW- struh-loh-PIH-thuh-kuss) species were discovered in this country and named the Taung (tong) Child. A desert region known as Karoo is located within this nation⸴ whose most-populous city is in a plateau region known as the Highveld. Along with a much smaller neighboring nation⸴ it contains the Drakensberg Mountains. This country completely surrounds a nation whose capital is Maseru. Name this African nation which surrounds Lesotho and includes the city of Johannesburg. - ttddRepublic of South Africa [prompt on ˈˈRSAˈˈ]
Name these Asian bodies of water. This rapidly shrinking lake along the border between Kazakhstan (KAH-zak-stan) and Uzbekistan (ooz-BEK-ih- stan) is chiefly fed by the Syr Darya (ˈˈsirˈˈ DAHR-yah) river. - ttddAral (ˈˈAIRˈˈ-rul) Sea [or Aral Tenizi or Orol Dengizi or Aralskoye More]
Name these Asian bodies of water. This river⸴ which flows through the disputed Kashmir (KASH-meer) region⸴ was the namesake of an ancient civilization that built the cities of Harappa (huh-RAH-puh) and Mohenjo-Daro (moh-HEN-joh-DAR-oh). - ttddIndus River [or Darya-e Sindh or Sindhu Nadhi]
Name these Asian bodies of water. In World War 2⸴ the British warships HMS Repulse and HMS Prince of Wales were sunk during a battle in this body of water. The nine-dash line is used to represent one country's claims within this body of water⸴ which contains the disputed Paracel (PAH-ruh-ˈˈsellˈˈ) and Spratly Islands. One of its arms⸴ the Gulf of Tonkin⸴ is north of where this sea receives the Mekong (ˈˈMEˈˈ-kong) River. Taiwan is at the north end of this sea⸴ which separates the Philippines from Vietnam. Name this marginal sea that shares part of its name with the world's most populous country. - ttddSouth China Sea [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈSouth Seaˈˈ or ˈˈChina Seaˈˈ]
Name these European nations. The Vardar River flows through the capital city of this country⸴ which shares Lake Ohrid with its western neighbor⸴ Albania. - ttddFormer Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [or Republika Makedonija or FYROM]
Name these European nations. The Most SNP (ˈˈS-N-Pˈˈ) Bridge⸴ which is also known as the UFO Bridge⸴ is located within this nation's capital city⸴ the limits of which border the nations of Austria and Hungary. - ttddSlovakia [or Slovak Republic or Slovenska Republika; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈSloveniaˈˈ]
Name these European nations. Near the western border of this nation is a grove of oddly-shaped trees known as the Crooked Forest. Along with its western neighbor⸴ this nation shares control of the Szczecin (SHEH-cheen) Lagoon. Pilsudski Square is found in the capital of this nation⸴ which contains the eastern portion of the region of Pomerania. A gated entrance to one notorious site in this country features the slogan ˈˈArbeit macht freiˈˈ (ˈˈARE-biteˈˈ mokt ˈˈfryˈˈ)⸴ meaning ˈˈwork sets you free.ˈˈ This country borders the southern boundary of Russia's Kaliningrad Oblast⸴ and its capital is situated on the Vistula River. The remains of the Auschwitz concentration camp are in what Baltic nation containing such cities as Gdansk (guh-DANSK) and Warsaw? - ttddRepublic of Poland [or Rzeczpospolita Polska]
Give the following related to North American geography. The Nelson River drains this Canadian lake⸴ which is a remnant of Lake Agassiz (AG-uh-see) that is connected to the Lake of the Woods by a namesake river. - ttddLake Winnipeg
Give the following related to North American geography. The southern portion of Chetumal (cheh-too-MALL) Bay is controlled by this country⸴ a former British colony that is the only Central American nation in which English is the official language. - ttddBelize (buh-LEEZ)
Give the following related to North American geography. One point of interest in this state contains a formation called the Devil's Golf Course. This state's ˈˈ17-Mile Driveˈˈ travels past an iconic tree known as the ˈˈLone Cypress.ˈˈ In 2013⸴ Pinnacles National Park was created in this state⸴ where Mono Lake is just north of the source of the San Joaquin (wah-KEEN) River. Lassen Peak⸴ the General Sherman Tree⸴ and Half Dome are points of interest within national parks in this state⸴ which controls the western side of Lake Tahoe. America's lowest point is within Death Valley in what western state that contains Yosemite National Park? - ttddCalifornia
Name these cities. The African Renaissance Monument provides views of this capital city⸴ which is situated on the Cap-Vert Peninsula. - ttddDakar (dah-KAR)⸴ Senegal
Name these cities. A continuously burning natural gas fire called Yanar Dag is located just outside of this Asian capital city⸴ which is situated on the Absheron Peninsula. - ttddBaku (bah-KOO)⸴ Azerbaijan [or Baki]
Name these cities. This city contains the archeological remains of a palace that once existed on Coudenberg Hill. In the 1860s⸴ this city covered over its main waterway⸴ the Zenne (ZEN-uh) River. This city's primary square is named Grand Place. In anticipation for the 1958 World's Fair⸴ it constructed a building that consists of nine inter-connected steel spheres and is named Atomium (ah-TOH-mee-um). One iconic landmark in this city depicts a naked boy urinating into a fountain; that sculpture is entitled Manneken Pis (MAHN-ih-kihn ˈˈpissˈˈ). This city contains an art museum dedicated to native painter Rene Magritte⸴ and it serves as the de facto capital of the European Union. French and Flemish are the most commonly spoken languages in what capital city of Belgium? - ttddBrussels⸴ Belgium [or Bruxelles or Brussel]
Name these bodies of water in the eastern hemisphere. A chain of islands known as Adam's Bridge are situated at the north end of this gulf⸴ which separates Sri Lanka from India. - ttddGulf of Mannar (muh-NAR)
Name these bodies of water in the eastern hemisphere. The Sea of Okhotsk is connected to the Sea of Japan by this strait⸴ which separates the islands of Sakhalin and Hokkaido. - ttddLa Perouse (lah ˈˈPAIR-oozeˈˈ) Strait [or Proliv Laperuza or Soya-kaikyo]
Name these bodies of water in the eastern hemisphere. South of the coastline of this body of water is an ancient cliffside building known as the Sumela Monastery. Around 5⸴600 BC⸴ this body of water experienced a sudden rise in water level according to a namesake ˈˈdelugeˈˈ hypothesis. This body of water has historically been referred to as the Euxine (YOOK-ˈˈsignˈˈ) Sea. In 2000⸴ an ancient shipwreck was discovered in this sea near the city of Sinop (suh-NOP). This sea borders the west side of the Isthmus of Perekop⸴ and it is at the south end of the Kerch Strait. The 2014 Winter Olympics were held along its shores in the resort city of Sochi (SOH-chee). The Sea of Azov is connected to what large sea along the northern coast of Turkey? - ttddBlack Sea
Name these cities. Kingsford Smith is the namesake of the primary airport serving this city⸴ in which Jorn Utzon (yurn OOT-zun) designed a notable building on Bennelong Point just east of a bridge nicknamed ˈˈThe Coathanger.ˈˈ - ttddSydney⸴ Australia
Name these cities. The mouth of the Parana (ˈˈparˈˈ-uh-NAH) River is just north of this city⸴ in which the Plaza de Mayo sits in front of the presidential mansion known as La Casa Rosada⸴ or ˈˈThe Pink House.ˈˈ - ttddBuenos Aires (BWAY-nohss ˈˈEYEˈˈ-ˈˈraceˈˈ)⸴ Argentina
Name these cities. This city's tallest building⸴ named Sapphire⸴ is within its Levent business district. The Galata (GAH-lah-tuh) Tower provides views of much of this city⸴ which was protected during the Middle Ages by the Theodosian (thee-uh- ˈˈDOEˈˈ-zhihn) Walls. A promontory in this city named Seraglio (ˈˈsirˈˈ-AG-lee-oh) Point⸴ which contains such sites as Topkapi (ˈˈTOPˈˈ-kap-ee) Palace⸴ the Blue Mosque⸴ and the Grand Bazaar⸴ is south of a harbor known as the Golden Horn. This city is located where the Sea of Marmara (MAR-muh-ruh) meets the Bosporus (ˈˈBOSSˈˈ-puh-russ) Strait. Name this city in Turkey formerly known as both Byzantium and Constantinople. - ttddIstanbul⸴ Turkey [prompt on ˈˈByzantiumˈˈ or ˈˈConstantinopleˈˈ before being mentioned]
Name these African nations. Rio Muni is the name of the mainland portion of this country⸴ which controls the island of Bioko off the coast of its northern neighbor. - ttddRepublic of Equatorial Guinea [or Republica de Guinea Ecuatorial or Republique de Guinee equatoriale; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈGuineaˈˈ]
Name these African nations. Along with its northern neighbor⸴ part of this country's western border is formed by the Ruzizi River⸴ which ends at Lake Kivu (KEE-voo). Along with its northern and eastern neighbor⸴ it was part of the colony of German East Africa. - ttddRepublic of Burundi [or Republique du Burundi or Republika y'u Burundi]
Name these African nations. A desert located primarily in this country features many unexplained⸴ barren patches of land known as fairy circles. The north end of this nation contains a large salt pan within Etosha (uh-TOH-shuh) National Park. In its colonial era⸴ this nation was the site of the Herero (huh-ˈˈRAREˈˈ-oh) Genocide. Part of its coastline where many shipwrecks have occurred is known as the Skeleton Coast. Part of this country's northern border is formed by the Okavango River⸴ which bisects its Caprivi Strip. The west end of the Kalahari Desert is in this country⸴ whose entire southern border is formed by the Orange River. German South-West Africa was the colonial name of what country whose capital is Windhoek (VINT- ˈˈhookˈˈ)? - ttddRepublic of Namibia (nuh-MIB-ee-uh)
Name these European nations. The island of Saaremaa (SAR-uh-mah) at the north end of the Gulf of Riga is controlled by this country⸴ whose eastern border runs through Lake Peipus (ˈˈPIEˈˈ-pus). - ttddRepublic of Estonia [or Eesti Vabariik]
Name these European nations. Most of the Istrian Peninsula is controlled by this country⸴ whose city of Dubrovnik (doo-BROV-nik) is located along the southern end of its Dalmatian Coast. - ttddRepublic of Croatia (kroh-AY-shuh) [or Republika Hrvatska]
Name these European nations. Within this country⸴ large stones inscribed during the 10th century sit between two hills known as the Jelling Mounds. A body of water named Limfjord (LIM-fyord) is surrounded by this nation⸴ whose city of Odense (OH-den-suh) is the most populous on its island of Funen (FOO-ˈˈnunˈˈ). The west end of the Oresund (UR-uh-ˈˈsunˈˈ) Bridge is near this nation's capital city⸴ which contains the Tivoli (ˈˈTEEˈˈ-vuh-lee) Gardens and is on an island at the south end of the Kattegat (KAT-ih-gat) strait; that island is named Zealand. In 2009⸴ Greenland was given ˈˈhome ruleˈˈ by what country on the Jutland peninsula whose capital is Copenhagen? - ttddKingdom of Denmark [or Kongeriget Danmark]
Name these narrow waterways. Engineer David Gaillard (ˈˈguyˈˈ-LARD) oversaw the construction of the Culebra (koo-LAY-bruh) Cut that is part of this 48 mile waterway⸴ which runs through the artificial Gatun (gah-ˈˈTOONˈˈ) Lake. - ttddPanama Canal [or Canal de Panama]
Name these narrow waterways. The Musandam (moo-SAHN-dahm) Peninsula is bordered to the north by this strait⸴ which connects the Gulf of Oman (oh-MAHN) to the Persian Gulf. - ttddStrait of Hormuz (hor-MOOZ) [or Madiq Hurmuz or Tangeh-ye Hormoz]
Name these narrow waterways. This body of water contains the disputed Perejil (ˈˈpairˈˈ-uh-ˈˈHEELˈˈ) Island⸴ which is just west of the enclave of Cueta (ˈˈSAYˈˈ-ew-tuh). A peninsula at the east end of this waterway is served by an airport runway that intersects with a road named after Winston Churchill. The promontories on either side of this waterway were known in ancient times as the ˈˈPillars of Hercules.ˈˈ The city of Tangier (ˈˈtanˈˈ-JEER) is along the south side of this strait⸴ which separates Spain from Morocco. Name this strait that connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Atlantic Ocean. - ttddStrait of Gibraltar [or Estrecho de Gibraltar]
Name these rivers. The Angara River is one of the largest tributaries of this Russian river in Siberia⸴ which empties into the Kara Sea⸴ an arm of the Arctic Ocean. - ttddYenisei (yeh-nuh-ˈˈSAYˈˈ) River or Yenisey River
Name these rivers. The Pyrenees Mountains contain the source of this primarily French river⸴ which flows through Toulouse (too- LOOZ) and ultimately empties into the Bay of Biscay at the port city of Bordeaux (bor-DOH). - ttddGaronne (guh-RAHN) River [or Garona]
Name these rivers. The Kuomboka (koo-ohm-BOH-kuh) ceremony is held on this river during its flooding season⸴ which results in an inundation of the Mana Pools. This river contains two tripoints separated by only several hundred feet at the location where it is met by the Chobe (CHO-bee) River. Dams on this river have formed the reservoirs of Lake Cahora Bassa and Lake Kariba. One of the final tributaries of this river is the Shire River⸴ which originates at Lake Nyasa (N'YAH-suh). Victoria Falls is on this river just downstream of the point where it crosses part of Botswana's northern border. The Mozambique Channel receives the flow from what fourth longest river in Africa⸴ which forms much of the southern border of the similarly named Zambia? - ttddZambezi (zam-BEE-zee) River [or Zambesi River or Zambeze (zahm-BAY-zee) River]
Give the following related to bridges. After being replaced in the 1960s⸴ the old London Bridge was bought by an American and reconstructed in an Arizona city sharing its name with this lake⸴ which was formed by the construction of the Parker Dam on the Colorado River. - ttddLake Havasu (HAH-vuh-soo)
Give the following related to bridges. A bridge across Guanabara Bay connects the city of Niteroi to this larger city⸴ which can be overlooked from Corcovado Mountain within the Tijuca (tee-HOO-kah) Forest. - ttddRio de Janeiro (REE-oh day zhuh-NAIR-oh) [prompt on ˈˈRioˈˈ]
Give the following related to bridges. This country hosted the 1998 World's Fair shortly after opening its longest bridge⸴ which crosses a body of water referred to as the ˈˈSea of Straw.ˈˈ Part of this nation's eastern border is formed by the Guadiana (gwah-dee-AH-nah) River⸴ the mouth of which is near the city of Faro within its Algarve (ahl-GAR-vuh) region. The name of its 25th of April Bridge commemorates the Carnation Revolution that occurred in this nation⸴ which controls the Atlantic Ocean archipelagos of Madeira (mah-ˈˈDIEˈˈ-rah) and the Azores. Within its capital city⸴ the Vasco da Gama Bridge crosses the mouth of the Tagus River. Name this country on the Iberian Peninsula whose capital is Lisbon. - ttddPortugal [or Portuguese Republic or Republica Portuguesa]
Give the following related to the Pacific Ocean. At the north end of the Pacific Ocean⸴ within the Bering Strait⸴ approximately two and a half miles separate these two islands on either side of the International Date Late. The ˈˈbigˈˈ one is owned by Russia and the ˈˈlittleˈˈ one is owned by the U.S. - ttddBig and Little Diomede Islands
Give the following related to the Pacific Ocean. The Solomon Islands are just southeast of this Pacific Ocean archipelago⸴ which is separated from the nation of Papua New Guinea by a namesake sea. - ttddBismarck Archipelago
Give the following related to the Pacific Ocean. This nation is the site of a unique architectural style that originated on the Pacific Ocean island of Chiloe (chil- oh-AY). One city in this nation has been called the ˈˈJewel of the Pacific.ˈˈ Robinson Crusoe was inspired by the time Alexander Selkirk spent on this country's Juan Fernandez Islands. Antofagasta (ahn-toh-fah-GAH-stah) is a port city within this nation⸴ which controls an island that contains many moai (MOH-ˈˈeyeˈˈ) statues and is known to its natives as Rapa Nui (RAH-puh ˈˈNEWˈˈ-ee). This country⸴ which features the port city of Valparaiso and Easter Island⸴ also controls the western part of the Tierra del Fuego archipelago. Name this long and thin South American nation whose capital is Santiago. - ttddRepublic of Chile (CHEE-lay) [or Republica de Chile]
Name these European rivers. With its source in the Cambrian Mountains⸴ this river of northeast Spain flows through the city of Zaragoza before flowing into the Mediterranean Sea south of Barcelona. - ttddEbro (EH-broh) River [or Ebre River]
Name these European rivers. Near the end of its run⸴ the Volga River is connected by a channel to this other Russian river that flows through the city of Rostov before emptying into the Sea of Azov near the Ukrainian border. - ttddDon River
Name these European rivers. This river is the site of an annual fireworks festival that occurs over five separate days and is known as this river ˈˈin Flames.ˈˈ After the Sarpefossen in Norway⸴ Europe's largest waterfall is on this river⸴ whose source is Lake Toma. The Aare (ARR-uh) River is a tributary of the high portion of this river⸴ which flows past a large rock known as Lorelei (LOR- uh-lye) within a namesake gorge. This river⸴ which discharges from Lake Constance⸴ flows past the cities of Basel and Strasbourg before emptying into the North Sea at Rotterdam. The Western German cities of Bonn⸴ Dusseldorf⸴ and Cologne (kuh-LOHN) are on what river which forms part of the border between Germany and France? - ttddRhine River [or Rhein River or Rijn River]
Name these North American bodies of water. The Alamo⸴ New⸴ and Whitewater Rivers feed what saline lake that is found within California's Imperial Valley near the Mexican border? - ttddSalton Sea
Name these North American bodies of water. The Truckee River⸴ which discharges from Lake Tahoe⸴ is the primary feeder of what Nevada lake near Reno whose name derives from the shape of the tufa formations found in and around the lake? - ttddPyramid Lake
Name these North American bodies of water. This body of water borders an abandoned lighthouse at a location known as Fourteen Mile Point. The Misquah Hills run along the west end of this body of water⸴ which receives the discharge from Lake Nipigon. It surrounds the Keweenaw Peninsula⸴ which is just east of the Apostle Islands. One island in this body of water is the site of predator-prey studies involving its native wolf and moose population. The St. Marys River flows past the city of Sault Ste. Marie (soo ˈˈsaintˈˈ muh-REE) while draining this lake⸴ which is the site of Isle Royale National Park. Found to the north of Michigan's Upper Peninsula is what lake that is the largest of the Great Lakes? - ttddLake Superior
Name these non-American states. Henry the Fowler was the 10th century duke of a medieval duchy sharing its name with this modern-day German state⸴ which borders the northwest part of the Czech Republic and contains the cities of Leipzig and Dresden. - ttddFree State of Saxony [or Freistaat Sachsen; do not accept ˈˈSaxony Anhaltˈˈ or ˈˈLower Saxonyˈˈ]
Name these non-American states. Kota Kinabalu is the capital of this Malaysian state which is located on the northeast part of the island of Borneo. - ttddSabah
Name these non-American states. The Wellesley Islands are off the coast of this state⸴ and part of its southern border is formed by the Dumaresq and Macintyre Rivers. Moreton Bay borders the capital of this state⸴ which attracts many tourists to its city of Cairns. This state is located along the south side of the Torres Strait. Its Cape York Peninsula borders the eastern shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria. The north part of the Great Dividing Range is in this state⸴ whose eastern coastline borders the Great Barrier Reef. Brisbane is the capital of what second largest Australian state that was named in honor of British monarch Victoria? - ttddQueensland
Name these Pacific Ocean islands or island groups. The Koro Sea is located among this archipelago whose two largest islands are Vanua Levu and Viti Levu⸴ the latter of which contains its most populous city⸴ Suva. - ttddRepublic of Fiji [or Matanitu ko Viti]
Name these Pacific Ocean islands or island groups. The first European settlement of this island occurred under the leadership of Fletcher Christian in the aftermath of a 1789 mutiny that ousted William Bligh as commander of the HMS Bounty. - ttddPitcairn Island
Name these Pacific Ocean islands or island groups. The frequently erupting volcano known as ˈˈKavachi's ovenˈˈ is part of this archipelago⸴ which received its name from the first European to discover it⸴ Alvaro de Mendana. During World War 2⸴ an Allied offensive to capture one island in this archipelago was known as Operation Watchtower. Bougainville is the largest island in this archipelago⸴ which is just southeast of the Bismarck Archipelago. A sea sharing its name with these islands separates them from the east coast of New Guinea. The country that shares its name with this archipelago has its capital at Honiara on the island of Guadalcanal. Name this Melanesian island group that shares its name with a rich⸴ Biblical king. - ttddSolomon Islands [or Solomons]
Name these European nations. The Prut River forms the entire western border of this nation that contains the breakaway republic of Transnistria⸴ which has its capital at Tiraspol (tih-RASS-pul). - ttddRepublic of Moldova (mohl-DOH-vuh) [or Republica Moldova; do not accept ˈˈMoldaviaˈˈ]
Name these European nations. The island of Saaremaa (SARR-ee-mah) is controlled by this nation whose eastern border runs through Lake Peipus. - ttddRepublic of Estonia [or Eesti Vabariik]
Name these European nations. This country is the site of a recently closed copper mine that operated for a millennium in the city of Falun⸴ which is in one of its nine northern provinces that are part of a region known as Norrland. This country features an open air museum and zoo named Skansen within its capital city⸴ which is built upon 14 islands at the east end of Lake Malaren. This nation is connected to the foreign island of Amager by the Oresund Bridge. This country is on the east side of the Kattegat Strait⸴ which separates it from the Jutland Peninsula controlled by Denmark. Name this Scandinavian nation in which five of the six Nobel Prizes are awarded at its capital of Stockholm. - ttddKingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
Name these bodies of water that border Asian nations. This strait⸴ which is at the north end of the Gulf of Mannar⸴ separates the island of Sri Lanka from India. - ttddPalk Strait
Name these bodies of water that border Asian nations. The Tian Shan Mountains contain the source of this river⸴ which flows primarily through Kazakhstan before emptying into the northeast part of the Aral Sea. - ttddSyr Darya [prompt on ˈˈJaxartesˈˈ; do not accept ˈˈAmu Daryaˈˈ]
Name these bodies of water that border Asian nations. One popular diving location in this body of water is the Fifi shipwreck site. The Dilmun civilization was centered along this body of water⸴ the eastern end of which contains the contested Greater Tunb (TOO-neb) and Lesser Tunb (TOO-neb) Islands. Dammam is one of the most populous cities along this body of water⸴ which borders a nation that was a former British protectorate called the Trucial (TROO-shul) States. The Safaniya (sah-FAH-nee-yuh) oil field is located in this body of water⸴ which is crossed by the King Fahd Causeway. It receives the Shatt al-Arab river and is connected to the Indian Ocean by the Strait of Hormuz. Name this Middle East gulf separating Iran from the Arabian Peninsula. - ttddPersian Gulf [or Khalij-e Fars or Bahr Faris; prompt on ˈˈArabian Gulfˈˈ; prompt on ˈˈGulf of Bahrainˈˈ]
Name these small nations. Kunta Kinteh Island is within this country on its namesake river⸴ the mouth of which is situated at this country's capital of Banjul. - ttddRepublic of The Gambia
Name these small nations. Mahe (mah-HAY) is the largest and most populous island within this Indian Ocean archipelago whose capital is Victoria. - ttddRepublic of the Seychelles (say-SHELZ)
Name these small nations. This country contains a ˈˈCloud Forestˈˈ and ˈˈFlower Domeˈˈ within an attraction known as the Gardens by the Bay. Much of this country's industry is centered on the artificial island of Jurong. The Riau (REE-ah) Islands are off the southern coast of this nation⸴ which is served by the Changi airport. This nation notably has laws which punish those who do not flush after using the toilet or sell chewing gum. This country⸴ which is along the south side of the Johor Strait⸴ was founded by Thomas Stamford Raffles. This nation consists of over 60 islands near the south end of the Strait of Malacca. Name this Asian city-state at the south end of the Malay Peninsula. - ttddRepublic of Singapore
Name these African rivers. This river⸴ which combines with the Logone River in the city of N'Djamena (en-JAH-may-nah)⸴ is the primary feeder of Lake Chad. - ttddChari River [or Shari River]
Name these African rivers. This river⸴ which forms part of the border between Angola and Namibia before flowing through the Caprivi Strip⸴ forms an inland delta where it terminates within the Kalahari Desert. - ttddOkavango River [or Cubango River]
Name these African rivers. In the upstream portions of this river⸴ a unique system of wooden tripods are used for fishing by the Wagenya people. One of its tributaries passes a large clearing known as Dzanga Bai (jonga ˈˈbyˈˈ)⸴ or ˈˈthe village of elephants.ˈˈ One source of this river drains the Bangweulu Swamps⸴ which are fed by the Chambeshi River. This river starts at the bottom of the Boyoma Falls near the city of Kisangani. The most populous city along this river is just downstream from the Malebo Pool. The Lualaba River is the largest feeder of this river⸴ which is the world's deepest. Name this central African river that flows past the cities of Brazzaville and Kinshasa⸴ both of which are capitals of namesake countries. - ttddCongo River [or le fleuve Congo or Zaire River]
Name these islands. Axel Heiberg Island⸴ which is part of the Sverdrup Islands archipelago⸴ is just off the western coast of this island⸴ which is separated from Greenland by the Nares Strait. - ttddEllesmere Island [or Umingmak Nuna]
Name these islands. The Gulf of Tomini borders the Minahassa Peninsula that comprises part of this island⸴ the most populous city on which is sometimes known as Ujung Pandang. - ttddSulawesi [or Celebes]
Name these islands. The south part of this island is home to an ecoregion called the spiny forest. This island's Ikahavo Plateau contains unique limestone formations known as tsingy. The northeast part of this island contains the Masoala Peninsula as well as its largest body of water⸴ Lake Alaotra. Its chief port city is Toamasina. The fossa is a cat-like animal endemic to this island⸴ which is also home to about 100 species of lemurs. The French island of Reunion (RAY-yoon-yun) is due east of this island⸴ which is the origin of the Malagasy language. Antananarivo is the capital of the nation on what island that the Mozambique Channel separates from the southeast coast of Africa? - ttddMadagascar [accept Republic of Madagascar or Republique de Madagascar or Repoblikan'i Madagasikara]
Give the following related to U.S. National Parks. The Chisos Mountains are completely contained in this national park⸴ which is within the Chihuahuan Desert along the banks of the Rio Grande. - ttddBig Bend National Park
Give the following related to U.S. National Parks. The Hoh Rainforest is located in a national park sharing its name with this peninsula⸴ which is separated from Vancouver Island by the Strait of Juan de Fuca. - ttddOlympic Peninsula [accept Olympic National Park]
Give the following related to U.S. National Parks. In 2011⸴ a national park in this state acquired over 5⸴000 acres of property known as the Sanson Ranch; that national park in this state is home to an extensive network of mineral formations known as boxwork. Part of this state's southeastern border is formed by the Big Sioux (soo) River. The Jewel Cave is one attraction in this state⸴ which contains a majority of the artificial Lake Oahe. This state⸴ which contains Wind Cave National Park⸴ is better known as the home of both Badlands National Park and a granite sculpture that was carved into the Black Hills by Gutzon Borglum. Name this Great Plains state that contains Mount Rushmore. - ttddSouth Dakota
Name the following related to South America. The north coast of Navarino Island lies along this strait through the Tierra del Fuego archipelago that was named during a voyage undertaken in the late 1820s. - ttddBeagle Channel [or Canal Beagle]
Name the following related to South America. The city of Barranquilla (bar-ahn-KEE-yah) sits at the mouth of this Colombian river⸴ on the which the El Quimbo Dam is currently being constructed. - ttddMagdalena River [or Rio Magdalena]
Name the following related to South America. One of the most populous cities in this nation is served by a public⸴ aerial⸴ cable car transit system known as Mi Teleferico. Part of its border with Brazil is formed by the Guapore (gwah-ˈˈPOORˈˈ-ay) River⸴ which is a tributary of this country's Mamore (mah-muh-RAY) River. A pre-Columbian city in this present day nation served as the capital of the Tiwanaku Empire. This nation⸴ whose most populous city is Santa Cruz de la Sierra⸴ contains the Desaguadero (des-ah- gwah-DEHR-oh) River⸴ which feeds Lake Poopo (poh-oh-POH). This country⸴ which contained a very lucrative silver mine near the city of Potosi⸴ shares the world's highest navigable lake with Peru; that body of water is Lake Titicaca. Name this landlocked South American nation whose capitals are at Sucre and La Paz. - ttddPlurinational State of Bolivia [or Estado Plurinacional de Bolivia]
Geography: Identify these US National parks. What national park located in California and Nevada is the site of the hottest recorded temperature on earth, and is the location of the lowest point in the US? - ttddDeath Valley National Park
Geography: Identify these US National parks. Old Faithful is located in what national park that spans portions of three western states? - ttddYellowstone National Park
Geography: Identify these US National parks. Best known for its swampy terrain, what third largest national park is located in southern Florida? - ttddEverglades National Park
Geography: Given the nickname of a US city, identify the city. The Big Easy - ttddNew Orleans
Geography: Given the nickname of a US city, identify the city. The Motor City - ttddDetroit
Geography: Given the nickname of a US city, identify the city. Sin City - ttddLas Vegas
Geography: Identify the following state capitals. What city is located south of Portland in the Willamette River Valley and is the capital of Oregon? - ttddSalem, Oregon
Geography: Identify the following state capitals. What capital of Minnesota is the northernmost capital city on the Mississippi River and is twin cities with Minneapolis? - ttddSt. Paul, Minnesota
Geography: Identify the following state capitals. What least populous-state-capital with less than 10,000 residents is located southeast of Burlington in Vermont? - ttddMontpelier, Vermont
Geography: Given a South American capital city, identify the country it is located in. Santiago - ttddChile
Geography: Given a South American capital city, identify the country it is located in. Buenos Aires - ttddArgentina
Geography: Given a South American capital city, identify the country it is located in. Bogata - ttddColumbia
Geography: Identify the Following US National Parks This third largest US National Park contains Lake Okeechobee and is found in Florida. - ttddEverglades
Geography: Identify the Following US National Parks This National Park was created by the Colorado River and was named a UNESCO World Heritage site. - ttddGrand Canyon
Geography: Identify the Following US National Parks One mountain in this park has a portion called a ''Diving Board''. The Bridal Veil Falls can be found here and another set of falls in this park drops into the Merced River. Sentinel Rock and El Capitan can be found in what California National Park that contains the Half Dome? - ttddYosemite
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. The highest point of this range is Jebel Toubkal, which is located south of Marrakesh. Identify this range of northern Africa that stretches from Morocco to Tunisia. - ttddAtlas Mountains
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. The highest point of this range, Mount Elbrus, is also the highest point in Europe. Identify this range that is home to the city of Sochi, Russia. - ttddCaucasus Mountains
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. A mountain in this range is the farthest from the center of the earth and is named Chimborazo, while the tallest mountain of this range is in the Mendoza province. Identify this longest range in the world that is home to Mount Aconcagua and stretches from Colombia to Chile. - ttddAndes Mountains
Geography: Sioux Falls is the largest city in what US state that is the home to Wind Cave National Park? - ttddSouth Dakota
Geography: Manchester is the largest city in what US state that is the home to Mount Washington in its Presidential Range? - ttddNew Hampshire
Geography: The geographic center of the lower 48 states lies in what Midwestern state, the site of the cities of Lawrence, Manhattan, Overland Park, Wichita and Topeka? - ttddKansas
Geography: Identify these rivers. This river originates in the Black Forest and empties into the Black Sea. Along the way, it runs through the cities of Bratislava, Vienna, and Budapest. - ttddDanube River
Geography: Identify these rivers. One tributary of this river is the Moselle, and it originates in Switzerland and empties into the North Sea. Identify this river that gives its name to a southwestern region of Germany. - ttddRhine River
Geography: Identify these rivers. This river is connected to the Don River with a namesake canal. This river passes the cities of Samara and Novgorod on its way to the Caspian Sea. Name this largest river of Europe that flows through Moscow in Russia. - ttddVolga River
Geography: Identify these deserts. The San bushmen are natives of this desert, which is bisected by the Okavango River. What desert of southern Africa comprises most of the nation of Botswana? - ttddKalahari Desert
Geography: Identify these deserts. This 70,000 square mile desert is the driest in the world because of the rain shadow of the Andes. Identify this desert in Chile and Peru. - ttddAtacama Desert
Geography: Identify these deserts. Tossup: The boundaries of this desert are marked by the presence of Joshua Trees, and cities in this desert include Henderson and Las Vegas. Identify this desert in western Nevada and central California that is the site of America's lowest point, Death Valley. - ttddMojave Desert
Geography: Identify the following North American mountain ranges. Containing the Wasatch and Bitterroot sub ranges, what mountain range has its highest peak at Mt Elbert? - ttddRocky Mountains (Accept 'Rockies')
Geography: Identify the following North American mountain ranges. Containing the Blue Ridge sub range, what mountain range has its highest peak at Mt Mitchell? - ttddAppalachian Mountains
Geography: Identify the following North American mountain ranges. Mt. Hood, Mt. Rainier, and Mt. St Helens appear in what volcanic mountain range? - ttddCascade Mountains
Geography: Identify these African countries from their capital city. Abuja - ttddNigeria
Geography: Identify these African countries from their capital city. Addis Ababa. - ttddEthiopia
Geography: Identify these African countries from their capital city. Tripoli - ttddLibya
Geography: Identify these world rivers. What river, formed by the confluence of the Nmaii and Mali Rivers, empties into the Andaman Sea and is the longest river in Burma? - ttddIrrawaddy River
Geography: Identify these world rivers. Rising in the Drakensberg Mountains and emptying into the Atlantic Ocean, what river is the longest in South Africa? - ttddOrange River
Geography: Identify these world rivers. This river is home to a namesake stingray, as well as the Irrawaddy dolphin. Rising in the Tibetan plateau, the Tonle Sap drains into this river. Forming part of the border between Laos and Burma, what Southeast Asian river empties into the South China Sea in Vietnam? - ttddMekong River
Geography: Answer these questions about the United Kingdom. Great Britain is separated from Scandinavia by what body of water? - ttddNorth Sea
Geography: Answer these questions about the United Kingdom. What body of water lies directly west of Great Britain between the island and its western neighbor? - ttddIrish Sea
Geography: Answer these questions about the United Kingdom. Located between Ireland and the United Kingdom is what small land mass whose official language is Manx? - ttddIsle of Man
Geography: Identify these American rivers. The longest river in the United States is what river that rises in the Rocky Mountains before emptying into the Mississippi River just north of St. Louis? - ttddMissouri River
Geography: Identify these American rivers. What river is formed from the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers in the city of Pittsburgh? - ttddOhio River
Geography: Identify these American rivers. The Snake River is the largest tributary of what river that forms much of the border between Oregon and Washington? - ttddColumbia River
Geography: Identify these colorful locations. The Crimean Peninsula juts into what body of water located north of Turkey between Europe and Asia? - ttddBlack Sea
Geography: Identify these colorful locations. The Suez Canal is located to the north of what sea dividing Saudi Arabia from Africa? - ttddRed Sea
Geography: Identify these colorful locations. What sub range of the Appalachian Mountains runs through eastern Tennessee and western Virginia and North Carolina and is home to Shenandoah National Park? - ttddBlue Ridge Mountains
Geography: Given a state, identify the most populous city located within that state. Alabama - ttddBirmingham
Geography: Given a state, identify the most populous city located within that state. Kansas - ttddWichita
Geography: Given a state, identify the most populous city located within that state. Montana - ttddBillings
Geography: Answer these questions about the geography of South Africa. The Orange River separates South Africa from what neighboring nation with capital at Windhoek? - ttddNamibia
Geography: Answer these questions about the geography of South Africa. Lying entirely within South Africa is what other nation with capital Masero? - ttddLesotho
Geography: Answer these questions about the geography of South Africa. Mozambique lies on the eastern border of what other nation that is surrounded on all other sides by South Africa and has its capital at Lobamba? - ttddSwaziland
Geography: Name these territories of Australia. John Utzon's Sydney Opera House lies on the shore of what state that completely surrounds Australian Capital Territory? - ttddNew South Wales
Geography: Name these territories of Australia. What state is the most densely populated in Australia and has its capital at Melbourne? - ttddVictoria
Geography: Name these territories of Australia. The Indian Ocean is to the west of this state, while the Bass Strait borders it to the North. With capital at Hobart, name this Australian island state that shares its name with a namesake devil. - ttddTasmania
Geography: Identify these American lakes. What large lake in Arizona and Nevada was formed by damming the Colorado River with the Hoover Dam? - ttddLake Mead
Geography: Identify these American lakes. The Truckee River is an outflow of what large freshwater lake located in the Sierra Nevada Mountains on the border of California and Nevada? - ttddLake Tahoe
Geography: Identify these American lakes. The deepest lake in the United States is what lake in Oregon that was formed by the collapse of Mount Mazama? - ttddCrater Lake
Geography: Identify the following peninsulas. Cancun lies on what Mexican peninsula that separates the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea? - ttddYucatan Peninsula
Geography: Identify the following peninsulas. Spain and Portugal lie on what large European peninsula? - ttddIberian Peninsula
Geography: Identify the following peninsulas. The Vizcaino Desert is located on this peninsula, which has Cabo San Lucas on its southern end. San Felipe, Rosarito, Tecate, and Tijuana lie on what peninsula that is bordered by the Mexican state of Sonora and the US state of California. - ttddBaja California Peninsula
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Jebel Toubkal is the highest peak in what mountain range that runs through Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia? - ttddAtlas Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Elbrus is the highest peak in what mountain range that separates Russia from Georgia and Azerbaijan? - ttddCaucasus Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. The Tatras Mountains are a subrange of this range that has its highest peak at Gerlach Peak. Containing the Iron Gate on the Danube, identify this mountain range that forms the historical border between Transylvania and present-day Romania. - ttddCarpathian Mountains
Geography: Identify these Canadian provinces and territories. Winnipeg is the capital of what Canadian province that lies between Ontario and Saskatchewan? - ttddManitoba
Geography: Identify these Canadian provinces and territories. Edmonton is the capital of what westernmost of Canada's prairie provinces? - ttddAlberta
Geography: Identify these Canadian provinces and territories. Vuntut National Park and Dawson City are located in this region that is home to Llewellyn Glacier that is the origin of this region's namesake river. Mount Logan is located in what Canadian federal territory with capital at Whitehorse? - ttddYukon Territory
Geography: Identify the following straits. Spain is separated from Morocco by what strait that connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Atlantic Ocean? - ttddStrait of Gibraltar
Geography: Identify the following straits. Mainland South America is separated from Tierra del Fuego by what strait that allows for passage from the Pacific to the Atlantic Ocean? - ttddStrait of Magellan
Geography: Identify the following straits. The Clarence Strait runs parallel to this strait that runs past the Musandam Peninsula, and it was the site of the Iran-Iraq Tanker War. Identify this strait that separates the United Arab Emirates and Iran and is an important entrance to the Persian Gulf. - ttddStrait of Hormuz
Geography: Identify the following lakes. Isle Royale is located in what largest freshwater lake by surface area in the world, the largest of the Great Lakes? - ttddLake Superior
Geography: Identify the following lakes. Green Bay is an inlet of what lake, the only Great Lake located entirely within the United States? - ttddLake Michigan
Geography: Identify the following lakes. Robert Smithson built the Spiral Jetty which was built in this lake that contains Fremont Island, as well as Antelope Island. A remnant of Lake Bonneville, identify this largest lake of Utah that is noted for its salinity. - ttddGreat Salt Lake
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Aneto is the highest peak in this mountain range that runs along the Spain-France border. - ttddPyrenees Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Aconcagua is the highest peak in this mountain range that runs along the western coast of South America. - ttddAndes Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Karpinsky is in this mountain range with a northern terminus at Novaya Zemlya. The Kama River flows through this range with highest peak Mount Narodnaya. Identify this mountain range that forms a natural border between Asia and Europe. - ttddUral Mountains
Geography: Identify the following African countries. What African country is bordered by South Sudan, Kenya, Tanzania, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo? - ttddUganda
Geography: Identify the following African countries. What African country is bordered by Nigeria, Chad, the Central African Republic, the Republic of the Congo, Gabon, and Equatorial Guinea? - ttddCameroon
Geography: Identify the following African countries. This country and its western neighbor are separated by the Chobe River, and this country is bordered by another nation's Caprivi Strip. Identify this country bordered by Namibia, Zimbabwe, and South Africa with its capital at Gaborone. - ttddBotswana
Geography: Identify the following rivers. El Paso lies on this river that forms the border between the United States and Mexico. - ttddRio Grande River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The border between West Virginia and Maryland is formed by this river that flows through Washington D.C. - ttddPotomac River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Cumberland and Wabash rivers feed this river that ends near Cairo [KAIR-oh], Illinois, where it meets the Mississippi River. Formed by the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela rivers in Pittsburgh, identify this river that forms the border between Kentucky and its namesake state. - ttddOhio River
Geography: Identify the following islands. The Indonesian capital of Jakarta lies on what second largest Indonesian island that lies southeast of the Sunda Strait? - ttddJava
Geography: Identify the following islands. What third largest island in the world is shared by Malaysia, Indonesia, and Brunei? - ttddBorneo
Geography: Identify the following islands. The world's largest national park is located on this island that has Kalaallisut as its official language. Bordered by Baffin Bay, the Davis Strait, and Labrador Sea, this island has its capital at Nuuk. Identify this island that is owned by Denmark. - ttddGreenland
Geography: Identify these island groups. Majuro is the capital of what island country that is part of Micronesia? These islands were the primary testing ground for nuclear weapons for the US during the Cold War. - ttddMarshall Islands
Geography: Identify these island groups. Honiara is the capital of what Melanesian islands that contain Guadalcanal? - ttddSolomon Islands
Geography: Identify these island groups. Saint Helier and Saint Peter Port are the capitals of the two islands in this group, those two islands being Jersey and Guernsey. Identify this island group that is named for the body of water in which they lie, between France and the United Kingdom. - ttddChannel Islands
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What western Russian river is the longest in Europe and drains into the Caspian Sea? - ttddVolga River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What longest river on the Iberian Peninsula divides Portugal and runs through Lisbon? - ttddTagus River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. Adolphe Thiers discussed making this river a border, and a siren-like woman known as Lorelei was said to inhabit this river. The Treaty of Versailles declared the area around it a demilitarized zone. Identify this river that runs through Cologne, Germany on its way to the North Sea at Rotterdam. - ttddRhine River
Geography: Identify the following mountains. What peak in the Caucasus Mountains is the tallest mountain in Europe? - ttddMount Elbrus
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Part of the Ellsworth Mountains, what is the tallest mountain in Antarctica? - ttddVinson Massif
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Jacques Balmat and Michel Paccard were the first two to climb this mountain on which the Janssen observatory was supposed to be built. The second tallest peak in Europe and the tallest in the Alps, is what mountain with a name meaning "white mountain"? - ttddMont Blanc
Geography: Given a national park, identify what state it is in. Mammoth Cave National Park - ttddKentucky
Geography: Given a national park, identify what state it is in. Big Bend National Park - ttddTexas
Geography: Given a national park, identify what state it is in. This state is home to Lassen Volcanic and Kings Canyon National Parks, as well as Sequoia and Joshua Tree National Parks. Identify this state home to Redwood, Death Valley, and Yosemite National Parks. - ttddCalifornia
Geography: Given the largest city in a state, identify the state's capital city. Birmingham - ttddMontgomery
Geography: Given the largest city in a state, identify the state's capital city. Jacksonville - ttddTallahassee
Geography: Given the largest city in a state, identify the state's capital city. This capital city is the county seat of Ormsby County and was established following the discovery of the Comstock Lode. Named after a mountain man with first name Kit, identify this capital city of the state whose largest city is Las Vegas, Nevada. - ttddCarson City
Geography: Identify the following geographical features. David Livingstone saw what waterfall that is found between Zambia and Zimbabwe and also known as the "smoke that thunders." - ttddVictoria Falls
Geography: Identify the following geographical features. What Venezuelan waterfall is on the Gauja River and is the world's largest waterfall? - ttddAngel Falls
Geography: Identify the following geographical features. The Isle of Wight lies in this body of water that lies between Folkestone and Coquelles. The islands of Guernsey and Jersey are located in what body of water that borders the cliffs of Dover and lies between France and the United Kingdom? - ttddEnglish Channel
Geography: Identify the following seas. The Gulf of Suez is part of this sea that separates Africa from the Arabian Peninsula. - ttddRed Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. The Crimean Peninsula juts into this sea that borders Ukraine, Turkey, and Russia. - ttddBlack Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. The Shetland and Orkney islands lie in this sea that includes Dogger Bank. The Skagerrak connects this sea to the Baltic Sea, and the Strait of Dover connects it to the Atlantic Ocean. Identify this sea located to the east of the United Kingdom. - ttddNorth Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. Dubrovnik lies on what arm of the Mediterranean that separates Italy from the Balkans? - ttddAdriatic Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. Connected to the Sea of Marmara by the Dardanelles is what sea that lies between Greece and Turkey? - ttddAegean Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. Gotland is an island in this sea that drains into the Kattegat and is connected by the Kiel Canal to the North Sea. The Gulf of Bothnia and Gulf of Finland are parts of what sea that borders Sweden, Finland, Germany, and Latvia? - ttddBaltic Sea
Geography: Identify the following islands. Osaka and Tokyo are on what largest and most populous island of Japan? - ttddHonshu
Geography: Identify the following islands. Sapporo is on what northernmost of the four major islands of Japan? - ttddHokkaido
Geography: Identify the following islands. Clark Air Base on this island was badly damaged by a volcano, and the Zambales Mountains are found on this island that is also home to Mount Pinatubo. The Tagalog people are indigenous to what largest island of the Philippines? - ttddLuzon
Geography: Identify the following Wonders of the Ancient World. This ancient wonder located in Alexandria was badly damaged by three earthquakes. - ttddLighthouse of Alexandria
Geography: Identify the following Wonders of the Ancient World. This ancient wonder located in Babylon was thought to have been built by Nebuchadnezzar II for his wife. - ttddHanging Gardens of Babylon
Geography: Identify the following Wonders of the Ancient World. The Greek architects Satyros and Pythius of Priene designed this wonder of the ancient world that was located within the Achaemenid Empire. Artemisia II of Catrap was entombed in what wonder that was a tomb located at Halicarnassus? - ttddMausoleum at Halicarnassus
Geography: Kingston is the capital of what island nation? - ttddJamaica
Geography: Amman is the capital of what Middle East nation? - ttddJordan
Geography: What is the capital of Singapore? - ttddSingapore
Geography: What river that rises in the Black Forest in Germany passes through four capital cities including Belgrade, Bratislava and Vienna before emptying into the Black Sea? - ttddDanube River
Geography: The other capital city that the Danube flows through is what capital of Hungary that was once two separate cities known by individual names? - ttddBudapest (accept Buda and Pest)
Geography: The largest port on the Danube, Galati, can be found in what country which contains the region known as Transylvania and has its capital at Bucharest? - ttddRomania
Geography: The islands of Cuba, Hispaniola, and Jamaica all have coastline along what sea? - ttddCaribbean Sea
Geography: The U.S. states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida all have coastline along what gulf? - ttddGulf of Mexico
Geography: The Bay of Campeche (cam-pay-chay), an arm of the Gulf of Mexico, is located to the west of what Mexican peninsula? - ttddYucatan Peninsula
Geography: Given a Middle Eastern country, name its capital city. Syria - ttddDamascus
Geography: Given a Middle Eastern country, name its capital city. Lebanon - ttddBeirut
Geography: Given a Middle Eastern country, name its capital city. United Arab Emirates - ttddAbu Dhabi
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Jbel Toubkal is the highest peak in what Moroccan mountain range named for a Titan? - ttddAtlas Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Rainier is the highest peak in what North American mountain range that also includes Mount St. Helens? - ttddCascade Mountains or Cascades
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Elbrus, the highest point in Europe, is found in what mountain range found between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea? - ttddCaucasus Mountains
Geography: Identify the following American lakes. Formed from the collapse of Mount Mazama is what lake in Oregon that contains Wizard Island and the Phantom Ship? - ttddCrater Lake
Geography: Identify the following American lakes. Found in the Sierra Nevada Mountains is what second deepest lake in the United States found near many popular ski resorts? - ttddLake Tahoe
Geography: Identify the following American lakes. Connected to another large lake by the Straits of Mackinac is what lake that is entirely within the U.S. and contains Beaver Island? - ttddLake Michigan
Geography: Identify the following deserts. What driest desert in the world located in Chile and Peru has seen disputes over mining rights? - ttddAtacama Desert
Geography: Identify the following deserts. What desert found in Southern Mongolia is bordered by the Altai Mountains to the north and the Taklamakan desert to the west? - ttddGobi Desert
Geography: Identify the following deserts. Home of the San bushmen is what southern African desert that covers Botswana and pieces of Namibia? - ttddKalahari Desert
Geography: Identify the following countries. What island country whose longest river is the Shannon contains such cities as Cork and Limerick? - ttddIreland
Geography: Identify the following countries. What country whose longest river is the Tagus owns the Balearic Islands? - ttddSpain
Geography: Identify the following countries. What country whose longest river is the Mekong contains the Red River Delta near its border with China? - ttddVietnam
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river that passes through Oxford and London runs past Windsor Castle and under the Tower Bridge? - ttddThames River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Ile de la Cite lies in what river that is the second longest in France and runs through Paris? - ttddSeine River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river passes through the Devin Gate, as well as the Iron Gate, and has its source in the Black Forest. Identify this river that passes through Belgrade, Bratislava, Budapest, and Vienna before emptying into the Black Sea. - ttddDanube River
Geography: Identify the following African rivers. Two countries in Africa are named for what second longest African river flowing from Lake Tanganyika? - ttddCongo River
Geography: Identify the following African rivers. Named for a country in west Africa with capital at Niamey is what third longest river in Africa? - ttddNiger River
Geography: Identify the following African rivers. Originating in Lesotho is what colorfully named river of that separates South Africa and Namibia? - ttddOrange River
Geography: Answer these questions about bodies of water that are arms of the Mediterranean Sea. What body of water separates the eastern shore of Italy from the Balkan Peninsula? - ttddAdriatic Sea
Geography: Answer these questions about bodies of water that are arms of the Mediterranean Sea. What body of water separates the eastern shore of Greece from the western shore of Turkey? - ttddAegean Sea
Geography: Answer these questions about bodies of water that are arms of the Mediterranean Sea. South of the Adriatic Sea is what sea off the southern coast of Italy that separates Italy from mainland Greece? - ttddIonian Sea
Geography: Given the largest city in a country, identify that country's capital city. Mumbai - ttddNew Delhi
Geography: Given the largest city in a country, identify that country's capital city. Toronto - ttddOttawa
Geography: Given the largest city in a country, identify that country's capital city. Zuma Rock is the "gateway" to this city, which lies inside the Federal Capital Territory. This city became the capital in 1991, moving from the largest city in its country, which is the second largest city in Africa. Identify this capital city of the nation including Lagos, Nigeria. - ttddAbuja
Geography: Identify the following lakes. The oldest and deepest lake in the world is what lake in Siberia that contains one-fifth of the world's freshwater? - ttddLake Baikal
Geography: Identify the following lakes. Located near St. Petersburg, is what largest freshwater lake in Europe? - ttddLake Ladoga
Geography: Identify the following lakes. The Cota and Ramis rivers feed into this lake that contains the Isla del Sol, and this river empties via the Desaguadero River. Having the highest elevation of any major lake in the world is what lake that lies on the border of Peru and Bolivia? - ttddLake Titicaca
Geography: Identify the following geographical features of Canada. Nicknamed Disappointment River, is what largest and longest river of Canada? - ttddMackenzie River
Geography: Identify the following geographical features of Canada. Found in the Northwest Territories is what largest lake entirely within Canada? - ttddGreat Bear Lake
Geography: Identify the following geographical features of Canada. Ranking as the 5th largest island in the world is what largest island of Canada that also has a namesake bay? - ttddBaffin
Geography: Given a state nickname, identify the state. The Golden State - ttddCalifornia
Geography: Given a state nickname, identify the state. The Great Lakes State - ttddMichigan
Geography: Given a state nickname, identify the state. The Show Me State - ttddMissouri
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Rio Negro is a tributary of what longest river of South America that runs through a namesake rainforest? - ttddAmazon River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What longest river in the world runs through Egypt and has White and Blue tributaries? - ttddNile River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The New Madrid earthquake disrupted the flow of this river that has its source at Lake Itasca in Minnesota. The most notable tributary of this river is nicknamed the "Big Muddy," and that river is the Missouri River. Identify this river that flows through New Orleans on its way to the Gulf of Mexico. - ttddMississippi River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What holiest river in India flows through New Delhi before merging with another river on its way to the Bay of Bengal? - ttddGanges River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Three Gorges Dam is located on what longest river in Asia that flows into the East China Sea? - ttddYangtze River or Chang Jiang
Geography: Identify the following rivers. Lake Hazar is the source of this river, and Nineveh, Mosul, and Tikrit lie on this river that joins with a river to its west to form the Shatt-al-Arab. Identify this river that flows through Baghdad and is often paired with the Euphrates River. - ttddTigris River
Geography: Answer these questions about American mountains. Mt. Rainier, Mt. Hood, and Mt. St. Helens are all located in what mountain range located in the American northwest? - ttddCascade Mountains
Geography: Answer these questions about American mountains. Denali is the official name of what mountain that until recently had been named for what American president? - ttddMount McKinley
Geography: Answer these questions about American mountains. The highest point east of the Mississippi River is what mountain located in North Carolina? - ttddMount Mitchell
Geography: Identify the following large islands. Denmark is the owner of what largest island in the world found between the Arctic and Atlantic oceans? - ttddGreenland
Geography: Identify the following large islands. Home to the city of Kyoto is what largest island of Japan and seventh largest island in the world? - ttddHonshu
Geography: Identify the following large islands. Containing the capital of Jakarta is what second largest island of Indonesia? - ttddJava
Geography: Identify these Australian states and territories. Sydney is the capital of what Australian state? - ttddNew South Wales
Geography: Identify these Australian states and territories. Brisbane is the capital of what Australian state? - ttddQueensland
Geography: Identify these Australian states and territories. Clarence, Launceston, and Devonport are located in this state that is separated from the mainland by the Bass Strait. Originally named Van Diemen's land, identify this Australian state with capital Hobart that is also known for its namesake devil. - ttddTasmania
Geography: Identify the following island nations. Port-au-Prince is the capital of what country that lies on the western side of Hispaniola? - ttddHaiti
Geography: Identify the following island nations. Santo Domingo is the capital of what country that lies on the eastern side of Hispaniola? - ttddDominican Republic
Geography: Identify the following island nations. The Dettifoss Waterfall can be found on this island nation, and a volcanic eruption here led to the creation of the island of Surtsey. The Faroe Islands are to the east of what island that is a Scandinavian nation with capital Reykjavik [rey-kyuh-veek, -vik]? - ttddIceland
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What second longest South American river flows through Brazil, Paraguay, and Argentina? It is home to the Itaipu [It-eye-poo] Dam. - ttddParana River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river of Venezuela is connected to the Rio Negro via the Casiquiare [kä-sē-ˈkyä-rā] Canal? - ttddOrinoco River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river starts at the River of Rock in the Tanggula Mountains and flows over Khone [kuh-oh-nee] Falls. Water from the Tonle [ton-ley] Sap drains into this river that forms part of the Laos-Myanmar border. Identify this longest Southeast Asian river that flows into the South China Sea in Vietnam. - ttddMekong River
Geography: Identify these lakes. What freshwater lake lies in the Sierra Nevada Mountains and straddles the Nevada-California border? - ttddLake Tahoe
Geography: Identify these lakes. What lake on the Colorado River is created by the Hoover Dam and lies near Las Vegas, Nevada? - ttddLake Mead
Geography: Identify these lakes. The "Phantom Ship" can be found in this lake, and a wooden stump floating in this lake is known as "The Old Man of the Lake." Formed from the collapse of the volcano Mount Mazama, identify this deepest lake in the United States, found in a caldera in Oregon. - ttddCrater Lake
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Hood, Mount Rainier, and Mount St. Helens are located in what mountain range that extends from northern California to British Columbia? - ttddCascade Range
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Whitney and Lake Tahoe are located in what mountain range that is primarily located in eastern California? - ttddSierra Nevada Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. The Snowy Mountains are a subrange of this range that contains Grampians National Park. The source of the Murray-Darling River, this range's highest peak is Mount Kosciusko [k ah s ee AH s k oh]. Identify this mountain range that runs along the eastern coast of Australia. - ttddGreat Dividing Range
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. The Catskills, Blue Ridge Mountains, White Mountains, and Great Smoky Mountains are all subranges of what larger range? - ttddAppalachian Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. The Teton Range is a subrange of what mountain range that contains Pike's Peak? - ttddRocky Mountains or Rockies
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. The Irrawaddy and Brahmaputra rivers have their sources in this range that contains the city of Kathmandu. Running through Nepal, China, and India is what range that is the longest in Asia and contains Mount Everest? - ttddHimalayas or Himalayan Mountains
Geography: Identify the following seas. Sicily, Cyprus, and Sardinia are located in what body of water that lies between Europe and Africa? - ttddMediterranean Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. Hispaniola, Jamaica, and Cuba are located in what body of water that contains the Bay of Pigs? - ttddCaribbean Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. Sodom and Gomorrah were said to be located on this body of water, and the Jordan River is its primary inflow. Identify this body of water that has the lowest elevation of any on land and is a very salty body of water located in Israel. - ttddDead Sea
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river flows through the Grand Canyon and the Hoover Dam before emptying into the Gulf of California? - ttddColorado River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Snake River is the largest tributary of what river of the Pacific Northwest that comprises part of the Oregon-Washington border and contains the Grand Coulee Dam? - ttddColumbia River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Thousand Islands were formed where this river meets the Canadian Shield, and it forms part of the border between Ontario and New York. Identify this river that was once thought to be the mythical Northwest Passage. - ttddSaint Lawrence River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river named after a Celtic goddess is the longest river in Ireland? - ttddRiver Shannon
Geography: Identify the following rivers. Rising in the Australian Alps, is what longest river of Australia? - ttddMurray River or Murray-Darling River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Adda River flows through Lake Como and into this river that encapsulates the Maira River and flows past Piacenza. Unlike the Arno and Tiber, this river flows east. Identify this river that flows past Turin and is the longest river in Italy. - ttddPo River
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Tenzing Norgay and Sir Edmund Hillary both ascended what Himalayan mountain that is the tallest mountain in the world? - ttddMount Everest
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Lying on the border between Kenya and Tanzania, is what tallest mountain in Africa? - ttddMount Kilimanjaro
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Walter Harper was the first man to summit this peak that has an Athabascan name meaning "the high one." Identify this centerpiece of a namesake national park that was recently renamed from Mount McKinley and is the highest peak in North America. - ttddMount Denali [accept Mount McKinley before mentioned]
Geography: Identify the following mountains. What mountain in North Carolina is the highest peak east of the Mississippi River? - ttddMount Mitchell
Geography: Identify the following mountains. What mountain in California is the highest peak in the contiguous United States? - ttddMount Whitney
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Because of this mountain's large amount of glacial ice, it could produce massive lahars and threaten the entire Puyallup Valley. Columbia Crest is this stratovolcano's highest summit. Identify this highest peak of the Cascade Range, a mountain in Washington State. - ttddMount Rainier
Geography: Identify the following states. Lake Tahoe lies on the western border of what state that is home to cities such as Reno and Carson City? - ttddNevada
Geography: Identify the following states. The Bitterroot Mountains lie on the western border of what state that is home to Glacier National Park, as well as the cities of Billings and Helena? - ttddMontana
Geography: Identify the following states. The eastern border of this state is marked by the Sabine River, and this state is home to Guadalupe Mountains National Park. The Mission Control Center for the U.S. space program is in this state that contains Big Bend National Park and has part of its northern border marked by the Red River. Identify this state that contains the cities of Lubbock, Galveston, and Dallas. - ttddTexas
Geography: Identify these European cities. What European city is home to a floating flower market, the De Wallen red-light district, and the Anne Frank house? - ttddAmsterdam
Geography: Identify these European cities. What European city is referred to as the "Venice of the North" and is the site of the annual Nobel Prize banquet? - ttddStockholm
Geography: Identify these European cities. The Shaft is set to rival the Shard for being the tallest building in this city that contains Kensington Gardens and the pedestrian Millennium Bridge. The Tower Bridge is in this city that contains Trafalgar Squares, as well as a ferris wheel known as "the Eye." Westminster Abbey, Buckingham Palace and Big Ben are all located in what capital of the United Kingdom? - ttddLondon
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river is formed by the joining of the Monongahela and Allegheny rivers in Pittsburgh before flowing into the Mississippi River at Cairo, Illinois? - ttddOhio River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Jefferson, Madison, and Gallatin rivers join in Montana to form what longest tributary of the Mississippi River? - ttddMissouri River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river contains the All-American Canal, which helps to irrigate the Imperial Valley and the Black Canyon is formed by this river into which the Gila River flows. The border of Baja California and Sonora is formed by this river that starts at La Poudre Pass and flows into the Gulf of California. What river flows through Hoover Dam and is the site of the Grand Canyon? - ttddColorado River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The Malebo Pool lies on what river that was formerly known as the Zaire and has the cities of Kinshasa and Brazzaville on it shores? - ttddCongo River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What third longest river in Africa lends its name to the countries with capitals at Niamey and Abuja? - ttddNiger River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river has its source at Geladaindong Peak in the Tanggula Mountains and the now extinct baiji dolphin lived in this river. The largest hydroelectric power station in the world, the Three Gorges Dam, lies on this river that flows into the East China Sea at Shanghai. Identify this longest river of Asia. - ttddYangtze River
Geography: Identify the following national parks. El Capitan and Half Dome are located in what California national park that is located in the Sierra Nevadas? - ttddYosemite National Park
Geography: Identify the following national parks. Old Faithful is located in what Wyoming national park that was the first national park? - ttddYellowstone National Park
Geography: Identify the following national parks. The Tusayan flame flower is endemic to this national park that contains the Kaibab Plateau and Bright Angel Trail, as well as a cantilevered bridge known as the Skywalk. Located in Arizona, identify this national park that is named after the central feature that was carved out by the Colorado River. - ttddGrand Canyon National Park
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Jebel Toubkal is the tallest peak in what mountain range that runs through Morocco, Tunisia, and Algeria? - ttddAtlas Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mount Narodnaya is the tallest peak in what mountain range that makes a natural border between Europe and Asia in Russia? - ttddUral Mountains
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Prislop Pass and Bucura Lake are in this mountain range that contains Gerlach Peak in its Tatras subrange. The Iron Gate on the Danube lies in this mountain range that borders Transylvania. Identify this mountain range of Central Europe that runs through Poland, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, and Romania. - ttddCarpathian Mountains
Geography: Identify the following islands. Iqaluit, the capital of Nunavut, is located on this largest island of Canada that is the fifth largest island in the world. - ttddBaffin Island
Geography: Identify the following islands. What island is the smallest province of Canada and has its capital at Charlottetown? - ttddPrince Edward Island
Geography: Identify the following islands. This island is home to the Diamond Circle route, as well as the largest waterfall in Europe, the Dettifoss Waterfall. Surtsey and the Faroe Islands lie off of the coast of this island nation that has a parliament known as the Althing. What island nation has its capital at Reykjavik? - ttddIceland
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river flows through the Llanos and forms part of the border between Colombia and Venezuela. It is connected to the Amazon River by the Casiquiare Canal. - ttddOrinoco River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river is the second longest in South America, runs through Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay, and is the site of the Itaipu Dam. - ttddParana River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. Team C: This river, whose source is in Colombia, is the longest left tributary of the Amazon and the longest blackwater river in the world. - ttddRio Negro
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn are in this mountain range that runs through France, Italy, and Switzerland. - ttddAlps
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. K2 and Everest are in this mountain range that runs through India, China, and Nepal. - ttddHimalayas
Geography: Identify the following mountain ranges. The Fulton Chain of Lakes lie in this mountain range that contains Whiteface Mountain, as well as Lake George, Lake Placid, and Lake Tear of the Clouds, which is on the slopes of Mount Marcy, their highest point. Lying between the Catskill and Green Mountains, is what mountain range of upstate New York? - ttddAdirondack Mountains
Geography: Identify the following deserts. This desert of northern China and southern Mongolia is bounded by the Altai Mountains to the north and the Tibetan Plateau to the south. - ttddGobi Desert
Geography: Identify the following deserts. This driest desert in the world runs alongside the Andes Mountains in Chile. - ttddAtacama Desert
Geography: Identify the following deserts. The Khoikhoi are people native to this desert that is home to the remains of Lake Makgadikgadi, and the Okavango River flows through this desert. This desert is the current site of an extensive meerkat study. The San bushmen are native to what desert that covers parts of South Africa, Namibia, and most of Botswana? - ttddKalahari Desert
Geography: Answer these questions concerning mountains. What mountain in Tanzania takes its name from Swahili and is the largest in Africa? - ttddMount Kilimanjaro
Geography: Answer these questions concerning mountains. What mountain in the Mendoza province of Argentina is the tallest peak in both the Andes and South America? - ttddMount Aconcagua
Geography: Answer these questions concerning mountains. This nation is home to the Diwata Mountains, and its highest peak is Mount Apo. The Pasig and Cagayan rivers flow through this nation that is home to a volcano that erupted in 1991, Mount Pinatubo. Tagalog is spoken in this nation that has Mindanao and Luzon as its two largest islands. Identify this Pacific island nation with capital at Manila. - ttddPhilippines
Geography: Identify the following lakes. The Apostle Islands and Isle Royale lie in this largest freshwater lake in the world that is also the largest of the Great Lakes. - ttddLake Superior
Geography: Identify the following lakes. The Niagara River is the primary outflow of this Great Lake that has Buffalo and Cleveland on its shores. - ttddLake Erie
Geography: Identify the following lakes. The Sese Archipelago is in this lake that has Ukerewe Island as its largest island and is fed by the Kagera River. This lake's major outflows include the Katonga River, and the cities of Entebbe and Kampala lie on its shores. The largest lake by surface area in Africa is what lake named after a British monarch? - ttddLake Victoria
Geography: Identify the following landlocked nations. This landlocked South American country contains part of Lake Titicaca and has its capitals at Sucre and La Paz. - ttddBolivia
Geography: Identify the following landlocked nations. The largest landlocked country in the world is this Asian nation and former Soviet Republic with capital at Astana. - ttddKazakhstan
Geography: Identify the following landlocked nations. This landlocked country is home to the Choke Mountains and Lake Chew Bahir. The Gurage people live in this nation that is home to the Afar Depression and was the site of the former Kingdom of Axum. The source of the Blue Nile, Lake Tana is located in what country that is bordered by Eritrea, Djibouti, and Somalia. Its capital is at Addis Ababa? - ttddEthiopia
Geography: Identify the following peninsulas. Cancun lies on this Mexican peninsula that separates the Gulf of Mexico from the Caribbean Sea. - ttddYucatan Peninsula
Geography: Identify the following peninsulas. Portugal and Spain are located on this large European peninsula. - ttddIberian Peninsula
Geography: Identify the following peninsulas. The Great Bitter Lake lies to the west of this peninsula that contains the Mitla Pass and Mount Catherine. The Negev Desert is to the east of this peninsula that contains the city of Sharm El-Sheikh. This peninsula separate the Gulf of Aqaba from the Gulf of Suez and is owned by Egypt. Identify this peninsula that juts into the Red Sea. - ttddSinai Peninsula
Geography: Identify the following North American bodies of water. The Delmarva Peninsula lies on what bay that borders both Maryland and Virginia? - ttddChesapeake Bay
Geography: Identify the following North American bodies of water. Sometimes considered the sixth Great Lake, what lake forms the border between Vermont and northern New York? - ttddLake Champlain
Geography: Identify the following North American bodies of water. The Uinta Mountains lie near this body of water that contains Antelope Island and is near Castle Rock. Robert Smithson built a structure in this lake known as the Spiral Jetty and this lake was formed from the remnants of Lake Bonneville. Identify this saline lake that is the largest lake in Utah. - ttddGreat Salt Lake
Geography: Identify the following island nations. Guantanamo Bay is located on what island nation with capital at Havana? - ttddCuba
Geography: Identify the following island nations. Port-au-Prince is the capital of what island nation that shares Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic? - ttddHaiti
Geography: Identify the following island nations. The Chatham Islands belong to this nation that is home to Lake Taupo and the mountain named Aoraki. The Cook Strait separates this nation's two major islands and the Maori people were indigenous here. Christchurch and Auckland are cities in what island nation consisting of North and South Island, and has its capital at Wellington? - ttddNew Zealand
Geography: Answer the following questions about islands. Hobart is the capital of what Australian island that is separated from the mainland by the Bass Strait? - ttddTasmania
Geography: Answer the following questions about islands. What island is politically divided among three countries: Malaysia and Brunei in the north, and Indonesia to the south? - ttddBorneo
Geography: Answer the following questions about islands. Inlets near this island group include Eagle Passage, Byron Sound, and Grantham Sound, and Lafonia is one of the islands in this group. Mount Usborne is the highest peak in this archipelago that is known as Las Malvinas to the Spanish. Stanley is the current capital of what archipelago that was the subject of a dispute between the United Kingdom and Argentina? - ttddFalkland Islands
Geography: Given notable landmarks, identify the following cities. What city is home to Copacabana Beach and the Christ the Redeemer statue on its Corcovado Mountain? - ttddRio de Janeiro
Geography: Given notable landmarks, identify the following cities. What city is home to the Tivoli Gardens and Edvard Eriksen's bronze Little Mermaid statue? - ttddCopenhagen
Geography: Given notable landmarks, identify the following cities. This city is home to a museum that has the sarcophagus of Alexander the Great, and the Golden Horn is a natural harbor in this city. Topkapi Palace is in this city on the Bosporus Strait that is also home to the Blue Mosque and Hagia Sofia. Identify this largest city in Turkey that was once known as Constantinople. - ttddIstanbul
Geography: Identify the following lakes. What deepest lake in the world is located in Siberia and contains roughly twenty percent of the Earth's fresh water? - ttddLake Baikal
Geography: Identify the following lakes. What largest lake in Central America is fed by the Tipitapa River? - ttddLake Nicaragua
Geography: Identify the following lakes. The Bodele Depression is near this lake that contains floating islands that are home to the Buduma people. The Chari River provides most of this lake's water. The Sahel surrounds this lake, which has significantly shrunk in recent years and become very shallow. Identify this African lake that shares its name with a country with its capital at N'Djamena. - ttddLake Chad
Geography: Identify the following European cities. The Bridge of Sighs and the Doge's Palace are located in what city famous for its gondolas? - ttddVenice
Geography: Identify the following European cities. The opera house La Scala is located in what city that lies near the Po River? - ttddMilan
Geography: Identify the following European cities. This city is home to a university known as the Sorbonne and it has twelve grand avenues that were designed by Baron Haussmann. A monument to the Battle of Austerlitz, the Arc de Triomphe is found within this city. This city also contains the Notre Dame Cathedral and the Eiffel Tower. Identify this capital city of France. - ttddParis
Geography: Identify the following bodies of water. The Crimean Peninsula juts into what sea that is surrounded by Romania, Russia, Ukraine, Turkey and Bulgaria? - ttddBlack Sea
Geography: Identify the following bodies of water. The Brahmaputra River empties into what bay that is a large indentation in the Indian Ocean and borders India and Myanmar? - ttddBay of Bengal
Geography: Identify the following bodies of water. This body of water contains the island of Guadeloupe. The Mosquito Bay lies on this body of water that is home to an island country with capital Port of Spain. In addition to Trinidad and Tobago, this body of water contains St. Kitts and Nevis and the Lesser Antilles, as well as the Bay of Pigs. Identify this body of water that contains Hispaniola and Cuba. - ttddCaribbean Sea
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river passes Windsor Castle and the Greenwich Observatory as it passes through Oxford and London on its way to empty into the North Sea? - ttddRiver Thames
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What second longest river in Europe starts in the Black Forest of Germany before running through Budapest and Vienna on its way to empty into the Black Sea? - ttddDanube River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river rises on the Langres plateau, and contains the Ile Saint-Louis and Ile de la Cite. This river flows through Troyes and Rouen, and empties at Le Havre. The Pont Neuf is a bridge over this river that divides a city into the Left and Right Banks. Identify this river that runs through Paris. - ttddSeine River
Geography: Identify the following islands. Osaka and Tokyo lie on what most populous island of Japan? - ttddHonshu
Geography: Identify the following islands. Sapporo lies on what northernmost of the four major islands of Japana? - ttddHokkaido
Geography: Identify the following islands. Clearwater and Deer Caves are on this island that is home to Mount Kinabalu, and is separated by the Makassar Strait from Sulawesi. Kalimantan is on the southern portion of this island, while Sabah and Sarawak are in its north. Shared by Brunei, Malaysia, and Indonesia, identify this third largest island in the world. - ttddBorneo
Geography: Identify these low geographical points. What point in California is considered to be the lowest and hottest point in the Western hemisphere? - ttddDeath Valley
Geography: Identify these low geographical points. The collapse of Mount Mazama created what deepest lake in the United States that is found within a caldera in Oregon? - ttddCrater Lake
Geography: Identify these low geographical points. This site is named after an island chain to which the Chamoru people are indigenous, and Otto Krummel helped to map this location. The deepest part of this location is named Challenger Deep and it is the lowest point anywhere on Earth's surface. Identify this trench located in the Pacific Ocean. - ttddMarianas Trench
Geography: Identify the following Canadian provinces. Vancouver and the western terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railroad are located in what province with capital at Victoria? - ttddBritish Columbia
Geography: Identify the following Canadian provinces. What easternmost of the Prairie Provinces has its capital at Winnipeg? - ttddManitoba
Geography: Identify the following Canadian provinces. Reindeer Lake and Lake Athabasca both primarily lie in this province that sees the Assiniboine River flow through its capital. The cities of Prince Albert and Moose Jaw are in this province that has its largest city at Saskatoon. With its capital at Regina, identify this middle of the Prairie Provinces. - ttddSaskatchewan
Geography: Answer these questions concerning waterfalls. Actually consisting of three waterfalls is what falls that lies between New York and Ontario and are travelled by the Maid of the Mist? - ttddNiagara Falls
Geography: Answer these questions concerning waterfalls. What Venezuelan waterfall forms the Churun River and is the world's largest waterfall? - ttddAngel Falls
Geography: Answer these questions concerning waterfalls. The Mutarazi Falls are located in this nation that is home to the Great Enclosure and the Shona people. Lake Kariba is in this nation that has its southern border made up by the Limpopo River. Victoria Falls is in what African nation between Botswana and Mozambique that has its capital at Harare? - ttddZimbabwe
Geography: Identify the following seas. The Gulf of Tonkin is an arm of this sea into which the Mekong River empties. This sea is bordered by Vietnam, China, the Philippines, and Taiwan. - ttddSouth China Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. This colorful sea is a southern inlet of the Barents Sea, and Onega Bay is a part of it. This sea is bordered by Karelia and the Kola Peninsula. - ttddWhite Sea
Geography: Identify the following seas. The Hejaz Mountains lie on this body of water that contains the Farasan Islands, and the Dahlak Archipelago of Eritrea juts into it. The Bab-el-Mandeb connects this sea to the Gulf of Aden, and it is connected to the Gulf of Aqaba by the Straits of Tiran. Connected to the Mediterranean Sea by the Suez Canal is what sea that borders Egypt and Saudi Arabia? - ttddRed Sea
Geography: Identify the following national parks. What national park in southern Florida is a grassy marshland that borders the Big Cypress Swamp and Lake Okeechobee? - ttddEverglades National Park
Geography: Identify the following national parks. What national park in southern Kentucky is home to the largest cave system in the world? - ttddMammoth Cave National Park
Geography: Identify the following national parks. Rattlesnake Springs is located within this national park, and this park's central feature contains the Rock of Ages, the Witch's Finger, and a room known as the Queen's Chamber. Located in the Guadalupe Mountains, identify this New Mexico national park that centers on its namesake cave system. - ttddCarlsbad Caverns National Park
Geography: Identify the following islands. The Green Line divides this island nation that has both Turkish and Greek inhabitants. Its capital is at Nicosia. - ttddCyprus
Geography: Identify the following islands. France owns this island that was the birthplace of Napoleon. Its capital is at Ajaccio. - ttddCorsica
Geography: Identify the following islands. This island is home to the Madonie Mountains and the Simeto River, and the Aeolian Islands lie just off its coast. A suspension bridge involving this island and the Strait of Messina has long been discussed. This island is home to Mount Etna and its capital, Palermo. Identify this Mediterranean island that is located to the south of Italy's boot. - ttddSicily
Geography: Team C: In what U.S. state would one find the cities of Sioux Falls and Pierre? - ttddSouth Dakota
Geography: In what U.S. state would one find the cities of Wichita and Topeka? - ttddKansas
Geography: In what U.S. state would one find the cities of Jasper and Cheyenne? - ttddWyoming
Geography: Identify these nations. What country situated between Mexico, Belize and Honduras is the site of the Mayan pyramids at Tikal? - ttddGuatemala
Geography: Identify these nations. Great Britain and Argentina dispute control over what archipelago located 300 miles east of mainland South America? - ttddFalkland Islands
Geography: Identify these nations. Toss-Up: The highest point in this nation is Doi Inthanon, which is located in Chiang Mai Province. This nation is the location of the Isthmus of Kra, which is located near its western border on the Andaman Sea. This nation is bordered to the north by Myanmar and Laos and to the south by Malaysia and a namesake gulf. Identify this Asian nation, formerly known as Siam, that has its capital at Bangkok. - ttddThailand
Geography: Answer these questions about European nations. The Vltava River is the longest river in this country that is home to St. Wenceslas Square and has its capital at Prague. - ttddCzech Republic
Geography: Answer these questions about European nations. Hungary and Ukraine border this country that was once paired with the Czech Republic. It has its capital at Bratislava. - ttddSlovakia or Slovak Republic
Geography: Answer these questions about European nations. Toss-Up: Mount Rysy in the High Tatras Mountains is this country's highest point. The Bay of Puck is located on the coastline of this nation with provinces such as Masovian and West Pomeranian. The city formerly known as Breslau is located in this country that is home to the Vistula River. The Carpathian Mountains form its southern border, and the Oder-Neisse Line is its western border. Krakow is located within what European country that has its capital at Warsaw? - ttddRepublic of Poland
Geography: Answer these questions about national historic sites. The Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Site is located in what US state where Franklin Roosevelt served as Governor before being elected President? - ttddNew York
Geography: Answer these questions about national historic sites. The Manzanar National Historic Site is located in what US state were Japanese-Americans were held in internment camps during World War II? - ttddCalifornia
Geography: Answer these questions about national historic sites. Toss-Up: National Historic Sites in this state include the First Ladies Museum and the Huffman Prairie Flying Field, while this state's only National Park is located at Cuyahoga Valley. Chillicothe and Zanesville served as capitals of this state before its current capital on the Olentangy River was selected in 1826. Goodyear is headquartered in this state's city of Akron. Identify this midwestern city with capital at Columbus. - ttddOhio
Geography: Identify these US cities. The Mall of America and Mayo Clinic are located in what city that is one of the "Twin Cities" with neighboring St. Paul? - ttddMinneapolis
Geography: Identify these US cities. Frontier Airlines, Chipotle, and Coors Brewing Company are all headquartered in what "Mile High City?" - ttddDenver
Geography: Identify these US cities. Toss-Up: Many immigrants from China entered the US through this city's Angel Island. Ghirardelli Square and Pier 39 are tourist attractions in this city that is home to Fisherman's Wharf. A bridge in this city is painted in the color of International Orange and spans this city's namesake bay. Identify this California city that lies across the Golden Gate Bridge from Oakland. - ttddSan Francisco
Geography: Identify these colorfully named geographic features. What river that rises in the Drakensberg Mountains is the longest river in South Africa and is named for a former Dutch royal house? - ttddOrange River
Geography: Identify these colorfully named geographic features. What second longest river in Asia flows for over 1,100 miles east to west across China? - ttddYellow River
Geography: Identify these colorfully named geographic features. Toss-Up: A portion of this mountain range that extends into Canada is known as the Sutton Mountains. The Stowe Mountain Resort is located in this range whose highest point is Mount Mansfield. Griffith Lake is located in this mountain range that lies along the Appalachian Trail. Ethan Allen led a group of "boys" named for what mountain range that runs south to north through Vermont? - ttddGreen Mountains
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. What rapidly shrinking body of water is located on the border of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan and is currently only 10 percent of its original size due in part to the diversion of the Syr Darya River? - ttddAral Sea
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. What inland sea lying east of the Caucasus Mountains is bordered by Iran, Kazakhstan, Russia, Azerbaijan, and Turkmenistan and is fed by the Volga and Ural Rivers? - ttddCaspian Sea
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. Toss-Up: The mouth of this lake is crossed by the General Rafael Urdaneta Bridge and the location where the Catatumbo River flows into this lake has more lightning discharge than anywhere else in the world. This body of water is partially covered by lemna, a form of duckweed that can only be removed physically. Identify this Venezuelan lake that is the largest in South America. - ttddLake Maracaibo
Geography: Answer these questions about national parks. Located along the coast of northern California, what national park is named for its trees that are the tallest on Earth? - ttddRedwood National Park
Geography: Answer these questions about national parks. Located in southeastern California near the Mojave Desert, what national park is named for the yucca brevifolia? - ttddJoshua Tree National Park
Geography: Answer these questions about national parks. Biscayne National Park is located in this state that has part of its northern border formed by the St. Mary's River. Dry Tortugas National Park is in this state that is also home to the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral. Identify this southern state that contains Everglades National Park. - ttddFlorida
Geography: Identify the following islands. What French controlled island in the Mediterranean Sea has its capital at Ajaccio? - ttddCorsica
Geography: Identify the following islands. What Italian island is located south of Corsica and has its capital at Cagliari? - ttddSardinia
Geography: Identify the following islands. The Glera River flows through this island that contains the Dettifoss Waterfall. This island lies north of Surtsey, and the Faroe Islands lie to its east. The volcano Eyjafjallajokull [eh-ya-fyet-la-yo-kut] erupted on this island in 2010 and disrupted world air travel. Identify this European island nation with a parliament known as the Althing whose capital city is Reykjavik. - ttddIceland
Geography: Identify these countries. Bamako and Timbuktu are cities in what African nation? - ttddMali
Geography: Identify these countries. The Darfur region is located in what African nation that contains the city of Khartoum? - ttddSudan
Geography: Identify these countries. The Khangai Mountains are located in this country that contains the Selenge River. This nation is divided into Aimags, and its southern portion contains the Gobi Desert. Ulaanbaatar is the capital city of what nation that lies between Russia and China? - ttddMongolia
Geography: Identify the following states. George Mason University and the College of William and Mary are located in what state? - ttddVirginia
Geography: Identify the following states. Kennesaw State University, Emory University and the Centers for Disease Control are located in what state? - ttddGeorgia
Geography: Identify the following states. Austin Peay State University is in this state that has its highest point at Clingman's Dome. A replica of the Parthenon is in one city within this state that is also home to the Grand Ole Opry. Belmont University is located in what state that is also home to Vanderbilt University? - ttddTennessee
Geography: Identify these American cities. The Walt Disney Concert Hall is located in what city that is also home to Hollywood? - ttddLos Angeles
Geography: Identify these American cities. The French Quarter is located in what city that annually hosts Mardi Gras celebrations? - ttddNew Orleans
Geography: Identify these American cities. This city contains the Transamerica Pyramid, and its Lombard Street is notably steep with eight hairpin turns. Fisherman's Wharf is in this city that suffered a major earthquake in 1906. Alcatraz Island lies off the coast of this city that lies across the Golden Gate Bridge from Oakland. Identify this California city. - ttddSan Francisco
Geography: Given a location in the United States, identify the city in which you can find it. Fisherman's Wharf - ttddSan Francisco
Geography: Given a location in the United States, identify the city in which you can find it. Mall of America - ttddMinneapolis (accept Bloomington OR St. Paul)
Geography: Given a location in the United States, identify the city in which you can find it. The CNN Center and the World of Coca-Cola - ttddAtlanta
Geography: Identify the following American cities. What city is home to Millennium Park, Cloud Gate, Lake Shore Drive, and the Willis Tower? - ttddChicago
Geography: Identify the following American cities. What city is home to the Walt Disney Concert Hall and is also the site of Hollywood? - ttddLos Angeles or LA
Geography: Identify the following American cities. This city is home to Lake Merced and Nob Hill, as well as the incredibly steep Lombard Street. The Transamerica Pyramid is the tallest building in this city that notably has a structure designed by Joseph Strauss. The site of a bridge that is painted International Orange is what California city that is home to the Golden Gate Bridge? - ttddSan Francisco
Geography: Identify these Asian cities. The Keelung and Xindian rivers surround what Asian capital city that was home to world's tallest building until the completion of the Burj Khalifa in 2009? - ttddTaipei
Geography: Identify these Asian cities. What Asian capital city lies in the Chao Phraya River delta and is the location of Wat Phra Kaew, a temple complex containing the Emerald Buddha statue? - ttddBangkok
Geography: Identify these Asian cities. Toss-Up: This city was formed in 1853 from the merger of six small towns in the provinces of Tondo and Laguna. This city is bisected by the Pasig River and a major road in this city is named for William Howard Taft. This city is found on a namesake bay and is part of a metropolitan area containing the largest nation in its country, Quezon City. Identify this city located on the island of Luzon that is the capital of the Philippines. - ttddManilla
Geography: Identify the following straits. This strait passes between the South American mainland and Tierra del Fuego. - ttddStrait(s) of Magellan
Geography: Identify the following straits. This strait separates the North and South Islands of New Zealand. - ttddCook Strait
Geography: Identify the following straits. Qeshm Island lies in the northern portion of this strait that sees twenty percent of the world's petroleum pass through it, and it was the site of the Iran-Iraq Tanker War. Connecting the Gulf of Oman to the Persian Gulf, is what strait that lies between the United Arab Emirates and Iran? - ttddStrait of Hormuz
Geography: Identify these North American bodies of water. What river that was originally dubbed "Disappointment River" is the longest river in Canada? - ttddMackenzie River
Geography: Identify these North American bodies of water. What lake located in the Northwest Territories is the largest lake entirely within Canada? - ttddGreat Bear Lake
Geography: Identify these North American bodies of water. Toss-Up: An Air Florida flight crashed into a bridge over this river in 1982 and this river is the site of a 300-foot cliff known as Hanging Rocks. Tributaries of this river include the Anacostia and the Shenandoah, and this river runs through Harper's Ferry before emptying into the Chesapeake Bay. Forming part of the border between West Virginia, Maryland, and Virginia is what river that flows through Washington DC? - ttddPotomac River
Geography: Identify the following states. Mammoth Cave National Park is located in what state with capital at Frankfort? - ttddKentucky
Geography: Identify the following states. Big Bend National Park is located in what state with capital at Austin? - ttddTexas
Geography: Identify the following states. The Wrangell Mountains and Brooks Range are located within this state that is home to the Valley of the Ten Thousand Smokes. Sitka National Historical Park and Denali National Park are located in what state that contains the cities of Nome, Wasilla, and Anchorage, as well as its capital Juneau? - ttddAlaska
Geography: Identify the following countries. The Nazca Lines and the city of Machu Picchu are found within what South American country that was the primary home of the Incas? - ttddPeru
Geography: Identify the following countries. The ruins at Tikal are located within what Central American country that has a namesake capital city and was one of the countries home to the Mayans? - ttddGuatemala
Geography: Identify the following countries. Monte Alban is found within this country that contains a city home to the Pyramids of the Sun and the Moon, as well as the Avenue of the Dead. The Zapotec people lived in the Oaxaca region of this country, and Chichen Itza is located here. Identify this country with a capital once known as Tenochtitlan, the former home of the Aztec people. - ttddMexico
Geography: Identify the following European cities. The Reichstag can be found within what German city that is also home to the Brandenburg Gate? - ttddBerlin
Geography: Identify the following European cities. A bronze statue of Alexander II can be found in Senate Square in what White City of the North that is the capital of Finland? - ttddHelsinki
Geography: Identify the following European cities. Renzo Piano designed this city's tallest building, known as the Shard, and the Kensington Gardens can be found in this city that also contains the pedestrian Millennium Bridge. The Tate Gallery, Buckingham Palace, and Big Ben are located in what capital city of the United Kingdom? - ttddLondon
Geography: Identify the following states. Shoshone Falls is located in what state that has Hells Canyon on its border with Oregon? - ttddIdaho
Geography: Identify the following states. Mount Rainier and Mount St. Helens are located in what state? - ttddWashington
Geography: Identify the following states. Fort Peck Lake is located in this state that has its highest point at Granite Peak. The Bitterroot Range forms the western border of this state that is home to Glacier National Park. The cities of Butte, Billings, and Bozeman are located in what western state with capital at Helena? - ttddMontana
Geography: Identify the following mountains. What mountain is the tallest peak in Antarctica? - ttddVinson Massif
Geography: Identify the following mountains. What mountain is the tallest peak in Australia? - ttddMount Kosciusko
Geography: Identify the following mountains. Moshi is the nearest settlement to this mountain that contains the currently melting Furtwangler Glacier. The Machame route up this mountain contains the Barranco Wall, and Hans Meyer was the first to climb it. Located in Tanzania, is what highest peak in Africa? - ttddMount Kilimanjaro
Geography: Identify these Canadian provinces. Winnipeg is the capital of what easternmost of the prairie provinces? - ttddManitoba
Geography: Identify these Canadian provinces. Edmonton is the capital of what westernmost of the prairie provinces? - ttddAlberta
Geography: Identify these Canadian provinces. Most of this province's population is concentrated in the Golden Horseshoe, and it contains the western portion of James Bay. Sault Ste. Marie is located in this province that shares the Lake of the Woods with Manitoba. Identify this most populous Canadian province that contains the cities of Ottawa and Toronto. - ttddOntario
Geography: Identify the following countries. Santo Domingo is the capital of what country that is located on Hispaniola? - ttddDominican Republic
Geography: Identify the following countries. San Jose is the capital of what Central American country? - ttddCosta Rica
Geography: Identify the following countries. This country's Sierra Maestra range contains its highest point, Pico Turquino. Isla de la Juventud is the second largest island in this nation that is separated by the Windward Passage from Haiti and by the Cayman Trench from Jamaica. Guantanamo Bay is located on what island nation with capital at Havana? - ttddCuba
Geography: Identify the following American rivers. What longest tributary of the Mississippi River is formed from the convergence of the Jefferson, Madison, and Gallatin rivers? - ttddMissouri River
Geography: Identify the following American rivers. What longest tributary of the Columbia River forms the Idaho-Oregon border after flowing through Hells Canyon? - ttddSnake River
Geography: Identify the following American rivers. Toss-Up: This river formed the Black Canyon, and the Salton Sea was formed as a result of this river flowing through the Imperial Valley. Yuma is the city where the Gila River meets this river, whose Alamo Canal was replaced by the All-American Canal. Lakes Powell and Mead were created after the Glen Canyon Dam and Hoover Dam were built to direct the flow of this river. What river that cuts through the Grand Canyon is named for a US state? - ttddColorado River
Geography: Identify these islands. The Green Line divides what Mediterranean island with capital Nicosia that is disputed between Turkey and Greece? - ttddCyprus
Geography: Identify these islands. What other Mediterranean island with capital at Heraklion was once the site of the Minoan civilization? - ttddCrete
Geography: Identify these islands. Toss-Up: The Franco-Hova Wars occurred on this island that was ruled by the Free French after Operation Ironclad. This island was once home to the Merina kingdom and it was a suggested as a relocation site for Jews by Adolf Hitler. Malagasy is the indigenous language of this island which is home to a large lemur population. Identify this island located across the Mozambique Channel from mainland Africa with capital at Antananarivo. - ttddMadagascar
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. The Deepwater Horizon oil spill occurred in what body of water into which the Mississippi River flows? - ttddGulf of Mexico
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. Myanmar and India are bordered by what bay that is a large indentation of the Indian Ocean? - ttddBay of Bengal
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. The Dahlak Archipelago is in this sea that also contains the Farasan Islands. Jeddah is the largest port on this sea that is connected to the Gulf of Aden by the Bab-el-Mandeb. Lying on one end of the Suez Canal, is what sea that lies between the Arabian Peninsula and Africa? - ttddRed Sea
Geography: Identify these rivers. The Itaipu Dam is on what South American river named for a carnivorous fish? - ttddParana River
Geography: Identify these rivers. What chief river of Venezuela flows through the Llanos? - ttddOrinoco River
Geography: Identify these rivers. The Manwan Dam is located on this river whose tributaries, the Chi and Mun Rivers, flow through the Khorat Plateau. The Khone Falls are on this river that the Tonle Sap drains into, and Vientiane and Phnom Penh lie on its shores. Identify this river that empties into the South China Sea in southern Vietnam. - ttddMekong River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The border between West Virginia and Maryland is formed by what river that runs past Mount Vernon and the White House? - ttddPotomac River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river that flows through Akron and Cleveland has famously caught on fire numerous times? - ttddCuyahoga River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. The mouth of this river is located near Cairo, Illinois, and it is the largest right tributary of the Mississippi River. The Cumberland and Wabash Rivers are tributaries of this river that forms from the confluence of the Allegheny and Monongahela Rivers. Identify this river that forms the border between Kentucky and its namesake state. - ttddOhio River
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. Mount Elbert is the tallest mountain in what range that also contains Pike's Peak? - ttddRocky Mountains or Rockies
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. Aneto is the highest peak in what mountain range that contains Andorra and separates Spain from France? - ttddPyrenees Mountains
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. The Gujjar tribes live in the Mohan Pass of this mountain range that is also home to the Sherpa people. Tenzing Norgay helped climbers in this mountain range, and it covers Nepal, China, and India. Containing K2, identify this mountain range that is home to Mount Everest. - ttddHimalayas
Geography: Identify the following national parks. What only national park located in Maine is centered on Mount Desert Island? - ttddAcadia National Park
Geography: Identify the following national parks. The third largest cave chamber in North America is located in what New Mexico national park? - ttddCarlsbad Caverns National Park
Geography: Identify the following national parks. During the winter, visitors to this National Park can visit the Badger Pass Ski Area, the oldest downhill ski area in its state. Mount Lyell is contained within this National Park that is home to Bridalveil Fall and the Hetch Hetchy Valley. This national park is located in the Sierra Nevada Mountains and is home to Half Dome and El Capitan. Identify this national park located in eastern California. - ttddYosemite National Park
Geography: Identify the following islands. Taipei is the capital of what island that was formerly known as Formosa? - ttddTaiwan
Geography: Identify the following islands. What Caribbean island contains the nations of Haiti and the Dominican Republic? - ttddHispaniola
Geography: Identify the following islands. The Madonie and Hyblaean Mountains are located on this island, off the shores of which are the Aegadian Islands and the Aeolian Islands. This island is separated from the mainland by the Strait of Messina. Palermo is the capital of what island that contains the city of Syracuse as well as Mount Etna. - ttddSicily
Geography: Identify these countries. Ghent and Antwerp are cities in what Low Country? - ttddBelgium
Geography: Identify these countries. The Hague is the seat of government in what other Low Country? - ttddNetherlands
Geography: Identify these countries. This country's city of Davos is home to the annual World Economic Forum, and its city of Lausanne is the seat of the International Olympic Committee. Lake Geneva and the Matterhorn are located in this country that is divided into cantons. Identify this neutral European country with capital at Bern. - ttddSwitzerland
Geography: Identify these cities. What city is home to the onion-domed St. Basil's Cathedral and the Kremlin? - ttddMoscow
Geography: Identify these cities. The Red Fort is located in what capital city of India? - ttddNew Delhi
Geography: Identify these cities. The Riachuelo River lies to the west of this city that contains the La Boca district and is home to the "widest avenue in the world." This city is located near the confluence of the Parana River and the Rio de la Plata. The Pampas is in the province that shares its name with what city that is the capital of Argentina? - ttddBuenos Aires
Geography: Identify the following countries. Santo Domingo is the capital of what country that is located on Hispaniola? - ttddDominican Republic
Geography: Identify the following countries. San Jose is the capital of what Central American country? - ttddCosta Rica
Geography: Identify the following countries. This country's Sierra Maestra range contains its highest point, Pico Turquino. Isla de la Juventud is the second largest island in this nation that is separated by the Windward Passage from Haiti and by the Cayman Trench from Jamaica. Guantanamo Bay is located on what island nation with capital at Havana? - ttddCuba
Geography: Identify these countries. Odessa and Kiev are located in what country that was a former Soviet Republic? - ttddUkraine
Geography: Identify these countries. Astana is the capital of what largest landlocked country in the world that was also a former Soviet Republic? - ttddKazakhstan
Geography: Identify these countries. This country's Bolan Pass connects its cities of Jacobabad and Quetta, and its city of Peshawar lies southeast of the Khyber Pass. The Thar Desert is located in this country that has its largest city at Karachi. Including most of the Indus River Valley, is what country with capital at Islamabad? - ttddPakistan
Geography: Identify these states. The Burning Man Festival annually takes place in what state that shares Lake Tahoe with California? - ttddNevada
Geography: Identify these states. The Live Entertainment Capital of the World, Branson, is located in what state that contains a notable Eero Saarinen designed structure? - ttddMissouri
Geography: Identify these states. Lake Oahe is located in this state that has its highest point at Harney Peak. The Sturgis Motorcycle Rally takes place in this state that contains the Black Hills National Forest and the city of Deadwood. The Badlands and Wind Cave National Park are located in what state that is also home to Mount Rushmore? - ttddSouth Dakota
Geography: Identify these deserts. Located in Western Australia and the Northern Territory, is what desert of Australia that is the second largest, only behind the Great Victoria Desert? - ttddGreat Sandy Desert
Geography: Identify these deserts. Located in Xinjiang Province, is what largest desert that lies entirely within China? - ttddTaklamakan Desert
Geography: Identify these deserts. This desert contains the Very Large Telescope at the Paranal Observatory and the U-shaped Loa River runs through it. Regions in this desert include the Tarapaca and the Antofagasta, and it is considered the driest hot desert on Earth. Running along the Andes Mountains is what desert of northern Chile? - ttddAtacama Desert
Geography: Identify these cities from landmarks and attractions located there. Graceland, Beale Street, and the headquarters of Fedex are all located in what US city? - ttddMemphis
Geography: Identify these cities from landmarks and attractions located there. The headquarters of Coca Cola, the Jimmy Carter Presidential Library, and the Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport are all located in what US city? - ttddAtlanta
Geography: Identify these cities from landmarks and attractions located there. Tossup: This city is the home to a former US Army fort called Presidio as well as many large companies, including Levi Strauss, Twitter, and Uber. A 1966 riot occurred at the Compton Cafeteria in this city's Tenderloin district. This city is home to the art deco Coit Tower that is located on its Telegraph Hill. Candlestick Park was the site of an earthquake in this city during the 1988 World Series. Identify this US city that is home to the Golden Gate Bridge. - ttddSan Francisco
Geography: Identify these world rivers. The cities of Vientiane and Phnom Penh lie on the shores of what river that flows through Laos, Cambodia, and Vietnam? - ttddMekong River
Geography: Identify these world rivers. Vienna, Belgrade, and Budapest lie on the shores of what river that flows through Eastern Europe before emptying into the Black Sea? - ttddDanube River
Geography: Identify these world rivers. Tossup: The Pali Canon is inscribed on stone tablets at a pagoda in a city along the banks of this river. This river is currently the site of the construction of the controversial Myitsone Dam and this river originates in the Kachin State with the confluence of the N'mai and Mali Rivers. Flowing into the Andaman Sea and passing the city of Yangon, is what river of Burma that is nicknamed "The Road to Mandalay"? - ttddIrrawaddy River
Geography: Identify these islands. San Juan is the capital of what Caribbean island that is an unincorporated territory of the United States? - ttddPuerto Rico
Geography: Identify these islands. Hagatna is the capital of what Pacific island that is a territory of the United States? - ttddGuam
Geography: Identify these islands. This island is home to the United States' Thule Air Base, and Svalbard Island lies to its northeast. Kalaallisut is the official language of this island that has its capital at Nuuk. The Davis Strait and Baffin Bay are to this country's west. Officially part of Denmark is what largest non-continent island in the world? - ttddGreenland
Geography: Identify the following cities. The Trevi Fountain and the Colosseum are located in what city on the Tiber River? - ttddRome
Geography: Identify the following cities. The Prado Art Museum is located in what capital city on the Iberian Peninsula? - ttddMadrid
Geography: Identify the following cities. The Hawkesbury River encircles this city, and Bondi Beach is located in one of its suburbs. This main site of the Rum Rebellion lies on Botany Bay and contains a Jorn Utzon designed building. The capital of New South Wales, identify this most populous city of Australia that is home to its namesake Opera House. - ttddSydney
Geography: Identify these cities. The Dome of the Rock and the Wailing Wall are located in what city that is sacred to Muslims, Jews, and Christians? - ttddJerusalem
Geography: Identify these cities. Often considered to be the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world, is what Syrian city that is now the most populous in its country due to recent deaths in Aleppo? - ttddDamascus
Geography: Identify these cities. The Barmakids once held power in this city that was home to the House of Wisdom during the Islamic Golden Age. This city was the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate, and it is considered the third holiest in Shia Islam. Identify this current capital of Iraq. - ttddBaghdad
Geography: Identify the following countries. Bloemfontein, Pretoria, and Cape Town serve as the three capital cities of what nation? - ttddSouth Africa
Geography: Identify the following countries. Sucre and La Paz serve as the two capital cities of what nation? - ttddBolivia
Geography: Identify the following countries. The Humboldt Current originates off the coast of this country, and its city of Antofagasta was invaded for its nitrate and copper resources. Easter Island is a possession of this nation that contains Tierra del Fuego. Valparaiso is the seat of the legislature in what country with capital at Santiago? - ttddChile
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. Mount Whitney is located in what mountain range that contains Lake Tahoe and Yosemite National Park? - ttddSierra Nevada Mountains
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. Mount Gerlach is located in what mountain range that runs through Ukraine, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia? - ttddCarpathian Mountains
Geography: Identify these mountain ranges. This mountain range contains the highest elevation volcano on Earth, and the Gate of the Sun is located in its foothills. People who speak Quechua live near these mountains that were created by the Nazca plate. Mount Chimborazo and Mount Aconcagua are within what South American mountain range? - ttddAndes Mountains
Geography: Identify these American cities. The United States Naval Academy is located in what city? - ttddAnnapolis
Geography: Identify these American cities. The United State Air Force Academy is located in what city? - ttddColorado Springs
Geography: Identify these American cities. The Skyway is a toll road in this city that is home to Millennium and Grant Parks, as well as the Navy Pier and Lake Shore Drive Apartments. Cloudgate, or the Bean, is located in this city that contains the second-tallest building in the United States, Willis Tower. Located on Lake Michigan, identify this largest city in Illinois. - ttddChicago
Geography: Identify these lakes. What remnant of Lake Bonneville is the largest lake in Utah? - ttddGreat Salt Lake
Geography: Identify these lakes. What deepest lake in the United States is found within a caldera in Oregon? - ttddCrater Lake
Geography: Identify these lakes. One island in this lake was said to be home to a mythical being known as the Great Lynx. The Apostle Islands and Isle Royale are located within this body of water. The St. Marys River drains this lake that was the site of the wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald. The world's largest freshwater lake by area is what largest of the Great Lakes? - ttddLake Superior
Geography: Identify the following rivers. With a Spanish name meaning "Big River," what river forms much of the border between Texas and Mexico? - ttddRio Grande
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What colorfully named river forms most of the border between Texas and Oklahoma? - ttddRed River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. Lake Sakakawea is formed by the Garrison Dam on this river that sees the Milk River flow into it near Fort Peck Dam. The Madison, Jefferson, and Gallatin Rivers combine to form this river that begins in Montana. Identify this longest tributary of the Mississippi River that flows into it near St. Louis in its namesake state. - ttddMissouri River
Geography: Answer the following questions concerning mountains. The song "America the Beautiful" was written after Kathie Lee Bates climbed what mountain near Colorado Springs? - ttddPikes Peak
Geography: Answer the following questions concerning mountains. What mountain in North Carolina is the highest peak in the U.S. east of the Mississippi River? - ttddMount Mitchell
Geography: Answer the following questions concerning mountains. Springer Mountain and Spruce Knob are mountains in this range that contains subranges including the Shickshocks, Blue Ridge, and White Mountains. Home to Clingman's Dome, Mount Washington, Mount Katahdin, and Mount Mitchell, is what major range of the eastern United States? - ttddAppalachian Mountains
Geography: Identify the following rivers. Ile de la Cite is an island located in what river that flows through Paris? - ttddSeine River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. What river flows through western Germany, including Cologne, on its way into the North Sea at Rotterdam? - ttddRhine River
Geography: Identify the following rivers. This river is joined by the Liard River near Fort Simpson, and it eventually empties into the Beaufort Sea. Originating at Great Slave Lake, this river was originally named Disappointment River. Named after a Scottish explorer, identify this longest river of Canada. - ttddMackenzie River
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. A popular ski resort is located near what lake on the California-Nevada border that is drained by the Truckee River? - ttddLake Tahoe
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. The majority of the flooding from Hurricane Katrina was caused by what large saltwater lake that is adjacent to New Orleans? - ttddLake Pontchartrain
Geography: Identify these bodies of water. Toss-Up: The city of Duluth lies on the western edge of this lake. Apostle Island and Isle Royale lie in this body of water that was the site of the sinking of the Edmund Fitzgerald. This lake is connected by the St. Mary's River to Lake Huron and lies north of Michigan's Upper Peninsula. Identify this largest of the Great Lakes. - ttddLake Superior
Geography: Answer these questions about African geography. Maseru is the capital of what African nation that is completely surrounded by South Africa? - ttddLesotho
Geography: Answer these questions about African geography. Mbabane and Lobamba are the two capitals of what African nation surrounded on three sides by South Africa and one side by Mozambique? - ttddSwaziland OR eSwatini
Geography: Answer these questions about African geography. Toss-Up: Ol Doinyo Lengai is a volcano in this region that is also home to Lake Eyasi. The confluence of the Mara and Grumeti rivers is in this region that was home to the site of much of Mary and Louis Leakey's research at Olduvai Gorge. The Great Rift Valley lies beside what region of Kenya and Tanzania that is a plain known for its massive yearly migration. - ttddSerengeti
Geography: Identify these deserts. The Altai Mountains bound the north of what desert located in northern China and southern Mongolia? - ttddGobi Desert
Geography: Identify these deserts. The driest desert in the world is what South American desert located between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes Mountains? - ttddAtacama Desert
Geography: Identify these deserts. Toss-Up: The remains of Lake Makgadikgadi are in this region that is also home to Gemsbok National Park and the dry Nossob riverbed. A decades long study of the meerkat population is based in this desert. The Okavango is the only permanent river in this desert that is home to the San bushmen. Identify this desert that covers parts of Botswana, Namibia, and South Africa. - ttddKalahari Desert
Geography: An exclave is a piece of land that is disconnected from the rest of the country. The best-known example would be what US state acquired from Russia in the 19th century? - ttddAlaska
Geography: An exclave is a piece of land that is disconnected from the rest of the country. The exclave of Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea is the territory of what country despite being bordered by only Poland and Lithuania? - ttddRussia
Geography: An exclave is a piece of land that is disconnected from the rest of the country. Toss-Up: The Treaty of Simulambuco established this country's most notable exclave as a protectorate of the Portuguese, who colonized this country in the 19th century. That notable exclave in this country is separated from the rest of this country by a narrow strip of land belonging to the DRC. The exclave of Cabinda is located in what African country whose capital is Luanda. - ttddAngola
Geography: Identify these European countries. The Tagus River flows through what European country with capital at Lisbon? - ttddPortugal
Geography: Identify these European countries. The Rijksmuseum is found in what European country with capital at Amsterdam? - ttddNetherlands (accept Holland)
Geography: Identify these European countries. Toss-Up: This country is home to Chillon Castle, which was used as a prison in the 16th century by the Dukes of Savoy. Europe's largest waterfall, the Rhine Falls, are located in this country that is also the site of Lake Geneva. Romansh is one of the four official languages of this nation that divides into subdivisions known as cantons. The north face of the Matterhorn is located in what historically neutral country with capital at Bern. - ttddSwitzerland
Geography: Answer these questions about islands. Jayapura is the largest city on what second-largest island in the world that is split between Indonesia and a namesake country? - ttddNew Guinea (Do not accept "Papua New Guinea")
Geography: Answer these questions about islands. Bandar Seri Begawan is the largest city on what third-largest island in the world that is split between Indonesia, Malaysia, and Brunei? - ttddBorneo
Geography: Answer these questions about islands. Tossup: This island is home to the ancient city of Selinunte, which is located between the Cottone and Modione rivers. The Aeolian islands lie off the coast of this island that is home to the Madonie Mountain range. A proposed 96 mile long tunnel would connect this island to Tunisia, while a proposed two mile long bridge would connect this island to mainland Europe. Mount Etna is located on what island with capital Palermo that lies just south of Italy's boot. - ttddSicily
Geography: Answer these questions about bodies of water that divide US states. What US river serves as the border between the states of Illinois and Missouri? - ttddMississippi River
Geography: Answer these questions about bodies of water that divide US states. What US river serves as the border between the states of Illinois and Kentucky? - ttddOhio River
Geography: Answer these questions about bodies of water that divide US states. Toss-Up: The overflowing of this river led to the creation of the Salton Sea, and this river was the site where the London Bridge was relocated. The Glen Canyon Dam on this river led to the creation of Lake Powell, while the Hoover Dam on this river led to the creation of Lake Mead. Identify this river that forms part of the Nevada-Arizona border before flowing through the Grand Canyon. - ttddColorado River
Geography: Identify these US states from landmarks. The World of Coca-Cola and the Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport are found in the capital city of what southern state? - ttddGeorgia
Geography: Identify these US states from landmarks. The Pullman Strike National Historic Site and O'Hare International Airport are found in what midwestern state? - ttddIllinois
Geography: Identify these US states from landmarks. Toss-Up: This state is the location of a National Historic Site commemorating the more than two thousand people who died in the Johnstown Flood. Another National Historic Site in this state commemorates the passengers who died on 9/11 in this state's city of Shanksville. Reading Terminal Market is located in this state's largest city, which is also the site of the Liberty Bell. Identify this state home to the cities of Pittsburgh and Philadelphia. - ttddPennsylvania
Geography: Identify these North American waterways. What river of the southwestern United States provides much of the border between Texas and Mexico? - ttddRio Grande
Geography: Identify these North American waterways. What river formed by the confluence of the Madison, Gallatin and Jefferson rivers in Montana empties into the Mississippi River near St. Louis? - ttddMissouri River
Geography: Identify these North American waterways. Toss-Up: One entrance to this waterway is spanned by the Bridge of the Americas while another entrance to this waterway is the location of the Colon Free Trade Zone. Gatun Lake is an artificial lake created by the construction of a dam near this waterway. This waterway is 48 miles long and includes three locks to aid in the movement of boats. Identify this waterway built to connect the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans through a Central American nation. - ttddPanama Canal
Geography: Identify these European rivers. What river passes by Windsor Castle and the Greenwich Observatory as it passes through the city of London? - ttddRiver Thames
Geography: Identify these European rivers. The Ile de la Cite is located within what river that passes through the city of Paris? - ttddSeine River
Geography: Identify these European rivers. Toss-Up: Several bridges over this river were destroyed during the 1999 NATO bombing of Kosovo. The Chain Bridge crosses this river and connects the former cities of Buda and Pest. This river rises in the Black Forest of Germany before emptying into the Black Sea. A waltz by Johann Strauss called this river "Beautiful" and "Blue." Identify this second longest river in Europe. - ttddDanube River
Geography: Name these Asian nations. Tonle (TAWN-lay) Sap is the largest lake in this nation, whose flag features the likeness of the twelfth century temple complex Angkor Wat. - ttddKingdom of Cambodia [or Preahreacheanachakr Kampuchea]
Geography: Name these Asian nations. This largest landlocked country in the world moved its capital out of its largest city, Almaty, in 1997. - ttddRepublic of Kazakhstan (KAH-zak-stan) [or Qazaqstan Respublikasy]
Geography: Name these Asian nations. Tossup: One city in this nation sits along a namesake gulf that borders the Karaburun Peninsula. This country's capital city is just northwest of the saline (SAY-leen) Lake Tuz (tooz). This nation's namesake "Riviera" contains the ruins of the Mausoleum at Halicarnassus (HAL-ih-kar-NASS-us). The northwestern portion of this nation is in the historical region of Thrace (thrayss). Elevated locations in this country include the Taurus Mountains along its southern coast and Mount Ararat near its border with Iran. Its largest city straddles the Bosporus Strait and is the site of the Hagia Sophia ("HI"-yuh soh-FEE-uh). Name this nation that is home to the cities of Ankara and Istanbul. - ttddRepublic of Turkey [or Turkiye Cumhuriyeti]
Geography: Name the following related to American mountain peaks that are the highest in their respective states. This California mountain is the highest peak in the contiguous U.S. - ttddMount Whitney
Geography: Name the following related to American mountain peaks that are the highest in their respective states. Mount Mitchell, which is the highest American peak east of the Mississippi, is located in this state. - ttddNorth Carolina
Geography: Name the following related to American mountain peaks that are the highest in their respective states. Tossup: The Devil's Kitchen Headwall is one landmark on this (*) state's highest mountain, which is circled by the forty mile Timberline Trail. This state's northern border runs near Multnomah Falls, which is a short drive west from the Bonneville Dam. One body of water in this state is home to an upright-floating log known as the "Old Man of the Lake." That lake in this state contains Wizard Island and was formed by the collapse of Mount Mazama (muh-ZAH-muh). Along this state's border with Idaho, the Snake River flows through Hells Canyon. Mount Hood and Crater Lake are sites in what state that contains the cities of Salem and Portland? - ttddOregon [accept Mount Hood before (*)]
Geography: Name the following related to Australia. Brisbane is the most populous port city bordering this large sea that receives flow from the Burdekin River along the northeast coast of Australia. - ttddCoral Sea
Geography: Name the following related to Australia. The Swan Bell Tower is a point of interest in this state capital that is the most populous city along Australia's west coast. - ttddPerth
Geography: Name the following related to Australia. Tossup: The coastline of this island near Pelabuhanratu (pell-ah-BOO-hahn-RAH-too) Bay is the first land you would encounter when traveling due north from Australia's Christmas Island. The western end of this island is within Ujung Kulon (OO-jung KOO-lon) National Park, which contains the last known habitat of its namesake rhino species. Hundreds of people on this island were killed during the 2010 eruption of Mount Merapi (meh-RAH-pee), which is about half way between the cities of Bandung (BAHN-dung) and Surabaya (soo-ruh-BYE-uh). This island on the southeast side of the Sunda (SOON-duh) Strait is situated between Bali (BAH-lee) and Sumatra (soo-MAH-truh). Name this most populous island in the world that contains Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia. - ttddJava [or Jawa]
Geography: Name these African bodies of water. The French island of Mayotte (may-YOT) is located in this body of water that separates Madagascar from mainland Africa. - ttddMozambique (moh-zahm-BEEK) Channel
Geography: Name these African bodies of water. The Bight of Biafra is part of this larger body of water off Africa's west coast that contains the intersection of the Equator and Prime Meridian. - ttddGulf of Guinea
Geography: Name these African bodies of water. Tossup: The Irebu Channel connects this body of water to Lake Tumba. This body of water contains Bamu Island just northeast of the second largest French-speaking city in the world after Paris. This body of water runs through a strip of land that separates the exclave of Cabinda (kuh-BIN-duh) from the rest of its country. The Ubangi (oo-BAHN-jee) River empties into this body of water, which flows past two national capitals just downstream of the Malebo (mah-LAY-boh) Pool. The Lualaba (loo-uh-LAH-buh) River is the source of this river, which forms part of the northwest border of Angola before emptying into the Atlantic Ocean. Name this second longest river in Africa that flows past Brazzaville and Kinshasa, which are the capitals of two namesake countries. - ttddCongo River [or Zaire (zye-EER) River; accept le fleuve Congo]
Geography: Name these famous European landmarks. This prison and castle on the Thames was built by William the Conqueror in 1078. It currently houses the Crown Jewels. - ttddTower of London [or Her Majesty's Royal Palace and Fortress; prompt on partial answer]
Geography: Name these famous European landmarks. This Berlin landmark consists of twelve columns and a chariot drawn by four horses. It was the site of a wall crossing during the Cold War. - ttddBrandenburg Gate [or Brandenburg Tor; prompt on partial answer]
Geography: Name these famous European landmarks. Alexandre Falguière designed a similar chariot sculpture that used to sit atop this landmark. The sculptures Departure of the Volunteers and Resistance and Peace are found within this landmark, which was designed by Jean Chalgrin. An eternal flame at this landmark inspired a similar one at JFK's grave in Arlington National Cemetery. The Tomb of the Unknown Soldier is found underneath this structure, which is located at the center of Place Charles de Gaulle. Name this Parisian landmark that was built to honor French soldiers during the Napoleonic Wars. - ttddArc de Triomphe de l'Étoile [or Triumphal Arch of the Star]