Answer these questions related to the work of Linus Pauling. Pauling proposed a triple helix structure for this molecule. Watson and Crick won a Nobel Prize for their discovery of this molecule's structure. - ttddDNA [or Deoxyribonucleic acid]
Answer these questions related to the work of Linus Pauling. Pauling proposed that taking large amounts of this substance could prevent the common cold. The deficiency of this substance can cause scurvy. - ttddVitamin C [or Ascorbic acid or Ascorbate]
Answer these questions related to the work of Linus Pauling. The existence of a class of these molecules⸴ which include a ˈˈhammerheadˈˈ type⸴ is used as evidence for the RNA world hypothesis. A constant denoted K-sub-m characterizes the kinetics of these molecules that are modeled by the Michaelis-Menten equation. HindIII and EcoRI are among the ˈˈrestrictionˈˈ types of them that cut DNA at specific sites. Pauling discovered that these molecules stabilize the transition state⸴ allowing the activation energy of reactions to decrease. Name these proteins that catalyze biochemical reactions. - ttddEnzymes [prompt on ˈˈcatalystsˈˈ; anti-prompt on ˈˈribozymesˈˈ]
Answer these questions about ecological succession. This form of succession occurs in areas that were previously lifeless⸴ and pioneer plants comprise a stage within it. - ttddPrimary succession
Answer these questions about ecological succession. Secondary succession can follow one of these destructive events⸴ which can be naturally caused by lightning or volcanic eruptions. - ttddWildfires [accept any type of fire]
Answer these questions about ecological succession. One of these conditions defined by immigration and extinction rates was introduced by MacArthur and Wilson to model island biodiversity. Climax communities appear when succession reaches this condition. No mutations and random mating are among the criteria for another of these⸴ which is described by the equation p squared plus two p q plus q squared equals one. Name this condition that occurs among allele frequencies according to the Hardy-Weinberg principle. - ttddEquilibrium [or steady-state; accept word forms; accept specific types]
Name the following biological molecules. This neurotransmitter⸴ which is released from the adrenal glands⸴ is responsible for the fight-or-flight response. - ttddAdrenaline [or epinephrine; do NOT accept ˈˈnorepinephrineˈˈ]
Name the following biological molecules. A Deficiency of this mood-stabilizing neurotransmitter can cause depression⸴ and its levels are regulated by drugs such as Prozac and Zoloft. - ttddSerotonin [or 5-hydroxytryptamine; or 5-HT]
Name the following biological molecules. A disease associated with this molecule causes characteristic drooping eyelids that can be raised by applying ice. High concentrations of this compound are found in the nucleus basalis of Meynert. This neurotransmitter is hydrolyzed by a namesake esterase in synapses after binding to muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. Myasthenia gravis is caused by a deficiency of this neurotransmitter⸴ and it is the target of Botox. Name this neurotransmitter that stimulates muscle contraction. - ttddAcetylcholine [or ACh]
Answer the following related to the digestive system. The pyloric sphincter connects the stomach to the duodenum⸴ which is a section of this digestive organ. - ttddSmall intestine [prompt on ˈˈintestineˈˈ]
Answer the following related to the digestive system. This organ utilizes countercurrent multiplication to absorb water from urine. That process occurs in the loop of Henle⸴ a portion of this organ. - ttddKidneys
Answer the following related to the digestive system. This organ's acinar cells contain many CCK A receptors⸴ which regulate the secretion of enzymes like lipase and protease from this organ. The A and B chains of one of its products are linked by C-peptide. A disease of this organ is characterized by a decreased concentration of oxaloacetate⸴ which causes ketoacidosis. That condition leads to chronic hyperglycemia. Alpha and beta cells are found in this organ's islets of Langerhans. Name this digestive organ that secretes glucagon and insulin. - ttddPancreas
Answer the following questions about cellular transport in and out of a cell. In this form of cellular transport⸴ molecules move across a semipermeable membrane to an area of high solute concentration. It is a special type of diffusion. - ttddOsmosis
Answer the following questions about cellular transport in and out of a cell. This type of cellular transport utilizes energy in the form of ATP. It involves the movement of particles against a concentration gradient. - ttddActive transport
Answer the following questions about cellular transport in and out of a cell. Proteins that transport this molecule use the NPA motif and ar/R filter to target it. This compound is purified by applying high hydrostatic pressure near a semipermeable membrane; that process is called reverse osmosis. Antidiuretic hormone maintains the body's concentration of this substance⸴ which is transported into cells by aquaporins. Name this compound that is called the universal solvent⸴ which composes nearly sixty percent of the body's weight. - ttddWater [or H2O]
Answer the following about plant anatomy. This tissue moves sugar from sources to sinks. It consists of sieve tube members and companion cells. - ttddPhloem
Answer the following about plant anatomy. Guard cells surround these pores used by leaves in gas exchange. They open only at night in CAM plants. - ttddStomata [or stoma or stomate]
Answer the following about plant anatomy. Meyerowitz and Coen developed a model describing the creation of whorls in these structures. An organ in this structure releases generative and vegetative cells during the process of dehiscence. The development of them in Arabidopsis was used to formulate the ABC model. Microsporangia in this structure are released from the anther⸴ and carpels compose these structures' pistils. They are possessed by angiosperms⸴ unlike gymnosperms. The stamen and pistil are found in what reproductive plant structure? - ttddFlowers
Give the following related to blood. This yellowish liquid in blood is used to suspend red blood cells. It contains dissolved proteins and salts. - ttddBlood plasma
Give the following related to blood. The equilibrium between carbonic acid and its conjugate base⸴ bicarbonate⸴ creates one of these systems that maintains a pH of about 7.35 in the blood. - ttddBuffer
Give the following related to blood. The protein chlorocruorin is found in the blood plasma of some of these organisms in the class Polychaeta. Specialized microvilli called microtriches line the tegument of another type of them. RNA interference was discovered in one of these organisms⸴ which was the first animal to have its genome sequenced. Examples of these organisms include C. elegans and planarians. Name these types of organisms whose flat⸴ round⸴ and segmented types are found in the phylums Platyhelminthes⸴ Nematoda⸴ and Annelida. - ttddWorms [accept flatworms⸴ roundworms⸴ or segmented worms; accept Platyhelminthes⸴ Nematoda⸴ or Annelida before mention; prompt on ˈˈparasitesˈˈ]
Give the following related to vesicles. SNARE proteins often help vesicles fuse with these organelles⸴ which have a low pH. Mannose-6-phosphate tags proteins destined for this organelle. - ttddLysosomes
Give the following related to vesicles. Many vesicle membranes are composed of these amphiphilic molecules that also form a ˈˈbilayerˈˈ in the cell membrane. - ttddPhospholipids [prompt on ˈˈlipid(s)ˈˈ]
Give the following related to vesicles. Aminopeptidase I is delivered to this organelle from the cytoplasm during selective autophagy. A specialized type of these organisms called ˈˈprotein bodiesˈˈ are found in plant seeds. The cell sap is contained within this organelle⸴ whose membrane is called the tonoplast. Water is pumped out of cells by the contractile type of them⸴ while osmosis of water into the central type of these organelles creates turgor pressure in plant cells. Name these large vesicles that store water and nutrients. - ttddVacuoles [accept contractile vacuoles; accept central vacuoles]
Answer the following questions related to the Animal Kingdom. The model organism Xenopus is a member of this taxonomic class. These animals have three-chambered hearts. - ttddAmphibians [or Amphibia]
Answer the following questions related to the Animal Kingdom. This species in the genus Homo was first discovered in Olduvai Gorge by Louis and Mary Leakey. Its name is Latin for ˈˈhandy man.ˈˈ - ttddHomo habilis
Answer the following questions related to the Animal Kingdom. The divergence of this order occurred before Metatheria and Eutheria according to the theria hypothesis. These organisms' excretory and reproductive systems both open into a cloaca⸴ and female members of this order secrete milk from their abdominal glands. All extant members of this order live in New Guinea and Australia⸴ and some members of this order release venom from spurs in their ankles. These land mammals can use electroreception. Name this mammalian⸴ egg-laying order that includes echidnas and platypuses. - ttddMonotremes [or monotremata]
Give the following relating to gene expression. Howard Temin and David Baltimore discovered an enzyme central to these entities that produce complementary DNA. One of these entities binds to CD4 to attack Helper T cells. - ttddRetroviruses [or Retroviridae; prompt on ˈˈvirus(es)ˈˈ]
Give the following relating to gene expression. This phenomenon⸴ which was proposed by Francis Crick⸴ involves the ability of tRNA to bind with multiple bases on mRNA. This phenomenon is responsible for the degeneracy of genetic code. - ttddWobble base pairing
Give the following relating to gene expression. In sperm cells⸴ protamines perform the same function as these proteins. HAT and HDAC are used to perform one of this protein's most important functions. The ˈˈlinkerˈˈ types of these proteins can adopt a zig-zag shape known as the thirty nanometer fiber. The acetylation of positively charged lysine residues on these proteins regulates gene expression⸴ and their structure is described as ˈˈbeads on a string⸴ˈˈ where the beads are nucleosomes. Name these protein components of chromatin around which DNA winds. - ttddHistones
Answer these questions about experiments in biology. Richard Lenski has been studying the evolution of populations of this organism since 1988. The O157:H7 strain of this bacterium produces Shiga toxin. - ttddEscherichia coli [or E. coli; prompt on partial]
Answer these questions about experiments in biology. Jonas Salk used the HeLa cell line to develop a vaccine for what disease? - ttddPolio
Answer these questions about experiments in biology. In 2008⸴ the Ara-3 strain in the Lenski experiment was found to grow on this compound. This compound is converted into an ˈˈisoˈˈ form by the enzyme aconitase. It's not ATP or PEP⸴ but this compound allosterically inhibits phosphofructokinase⸴ stopping glycolysis⸴ and oxaloacetate is produced from malate in a process named after this compound⸴ which creates two molecules of FADH2. That process occurs in the mitochondrial matrix and is also called the Krebs cycle. Name this acid that is found in lemons and oranges. - ttddCitric acid [or citrate]
Answer the following questions about model organisms. Barbara McClintock spent her entire career studying this model organism⸴ in which she discovered the first transposons. - ttddMaize [or Zea mays; accept corn]
Answer the following questions about model organisms. Sydney Brenner studied apoptosis in this model organism⸴ a species of worm. - ttddCaenorhabditis elegans [prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following questions about model organisms. Inbred strains of this organism were used to study cancer by C.C. Little. Capecchi and Smithies pioneered a technique using this organism that inactivates the HPRT gene⸴ and insulitis in the NOD types of them is used as a model for type one diabetes. Through homologous recombination of DNA in these animals' embryonic stem cells⸴ their ˈˈknockoutˈˈ version can be created. After humans⸴ this was the first mammal to have its genome sequenced. Name these common laboratory rodents. - ttddMice [or mouse; or Mus musculus; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈratsˈˈ]
Identify the following neurodegenerative diseases. This disease is caused by excessive cytosine⸴ adenine⸴ and guanine repeats. Symptoms of this disease include uncontrolled jerks called chorea. - ttddHuntington's Disease
Identify the following neurodegenerative diseases. This neurodegenerative disease causes atrophy of upper and lower motor neurons. It is treated by the drug Riluzole⸴ which blocks the release of glutamic acid. - ttddAmyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis [or ALS; accept Lou Gehrig's Disease]
Identify the following neurodegenerative diseases. Entacapone is added to a drug used to treat this disease to inhibit the enzyme COMT. Selegiline and rasagiline are administered to sufferers of this disease⸴ since they oppose monoamine oxidase-A. The buildup of alpha-synuclein in nerve cells during this disease creates Lewy bodies⸴ and the tyrosine derivatives carbidopa and L-dopa are administered to people with this disease⸴ which is caused by damage to the substantia nigra. Name this disease that is caused by a deficiency of dopamine⸴ which results in shaking⸴ rigidity⸴ and slowness of movement. - ttddParkinson's Disease
Give the following regarding ecology. This form of selection is practiced by organisms that are larger and require more energy. Organisms who display this type of selection produce fewer offspring that have longer life expectancies. - ttddK-selection
Give the following regarding ecology. These species have a disproportionately high impact on their ecosystems. Examples of them include engineer species⸴ like beavers⸴ and predators⸴ like sea otters that eat sea urchins to protect kelp forests. - ttddKeystone species
Give the following regarding ecology. An equation central to this practice states r times B is greater than C. The ˈˈreciprocalˈˈ type of this practice is displayed by vampire bats⸴ and its prevalence is explained by the green-beard hypothesis. This phenomenon occurs when the product of relatedness and reproduction benefit is greater than the reproductive cost⸴ according to Hamilton's rule⸴ which governs the ˈˈkin selectionˈˈ type of it. Bees display a form of it called eusociality⸴ and this behavior reduces one's own fitness to improve the fitness of others. Identify this selfless behavior. - ttddAltruism [accept word forms; anti-prompt on ˈˈkin selectionˈˈ or ˈˈeusocialityˈˈ before mentioned]
Answer the following about cells and tissues in the human body. The weakening and breakdown of skeletal muscles over time is indicative of what genetic disease? - ttddMuscular dystrophy [accept MD]
Answer the following about cells and tissues in the human body. The insulating covers of nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord are damaged in what autoimmune demyelinating condition? - ttddMultiple sclerosis [accept MS]
Answer the following about cells and tissues in the human body. The concentration of this substance in the ER is determined by STIM1⸴ and this substance binds to the N lobe of Troponin C⸴ which contains four EF hand motifs. A debunked theory of fertilization stated that a ˈˈbombˈˈ of this substance entered the oocyte⸴ and a hormone produced in the C cells of the thyroid gland is used to reduce the blood levels of this substance. That hormone⸴ calcitonin⸴ is opposed by parathyroid hormone and activates Vitamin D to reuptake this ion. A phosphate of this ion composes hydroxyapatite⸴ the main component of human bone. Name this ion that is found in milk. - ttddCalcium ions [or Ca 2 plus]
Give the following about the cerebellum. This adjective describes the four nuclei in the cerebellum that are embedded in white matter. Immobility can create thrombosis in veins described by this adjective. - ttddDeep nuclei [or deep veins]
Give the following about the cerebellum. Purkinje cells in the cerebellum regulate motor movements by releasing this primarily inhibitory neurotransmitter. Its effects are enhanced by benzodiazepine drugs. - ttddGABA [or gamma-Aminobutyric acid]
Give the following about the cerebellum. A deficiency of this substance reduces the concentration of alpha-KGDH⸴ causing cerebellar ataxia. That disorder⸴ which results in ophthalmoplegia and mental disruption⸴ combines the effects of Wernicke's encephalopathy and Korsakoff's psychosis. This compound is composed of a pyrimidine linked to a thiazole ring by a methylene bridge. Transketolase and pyruvate dehydrogenase require a cofactor of this vitamin's pyrophosphate. Consuming polished rice can lead to its deficiency⸴ which comes in wet and dry forms. Name this B vitamin⸴ a deficiency of which causes beriberi. - ttddThiamine [or Vitamin B1]
Answer the following questions about a biological phenomenon. The enzyme luciferase catalyzes reactions that cause anglerfish and fireflies to produce light in what biological phenomenon? - ttddBioluminescence
Answer the following questions about a biological phenomenon. Organisms in the genus Aliivibrio control bioluminescence using one of these systems called lux. Some of these systems of gene regulation are repressed through attenuation. - ttddOperons
Answer the following questions about a biological phenomenon. One method of this procedure uses ATP sulfurylase to convert luciferin to oxyluciferin⸴ and the resulting light is used to measure pyrophosphate release. Dyes are added to local clonal colonies called ˈˈclustersˈˈ in a method of this procedure developed by Illumina⸴ which is among its ˈˈNext-genˈˈ methods. The outputs of this technique for random fragments are combined in its ˈˈshotgunˈˈ form⸴ which was utilized by Craig Venter. ddNTPs are used in the chain termination method of it⸴ which is named for Frederick Sanger. Name this procedure that determines the order of nucleotides in a genome. - ttddDNA Sequencing [accept specific types]
Answer these questions about medical conditions in which sufferers have more copies of some body parts than usual. Between ten percent and thirty percent of humans have a fabella⸴ a small extra bone embedded in the tendons of this joint. The better-known bone located at this joint⸴ which almost all humans have⸴ is the patella. - ttddKnee
Answer these questions about medical conditions in which sufferers have more copies of some body parts than usual. Poly·dac·tyly is a usually-benign mutation in which a person is born with more than the usual number of these body parts. - ttddDigits [accept Fingers or Toes or both]
Answer these questions about medical conditions in which sufferers have more copies of some body parts than usual. The most common kind of additional instances of these structures is known as a mesiodens. Parts of these structures are covered by cementum⸴ and these structures are separated into two parts by the cemento·enamel junction. Humans have two sets of these structures⸴ and the second set contains four more of these things than the first set⸴ which fall out and are replaced. These structures can be covered in a biofilm known as plaque. Identify these structures in the mouth which help people chew things. - ttddTeeth
Answer the following about extinct flying animals. This species of large flightless bird native to Mauritius went extinct less than a hundred years after the arrival of Dutch sailors on the island; its extinction in 1662 was the first time that a species was recognized to have been made extinct by humans. - ttddDodo
Answer the following about extinct flying animals. This bird species went extinct in 1901 because of habitat destruction and overhunting; at one point⸴ they were so numerous that their migrations could darken the sky. - ttddPassenger pigeon [prompt on ˈˈpigeonˈˈ]
Answer the following about extinct flying animals. A large oscillation in the carbon isotope ratio during the first half of this geologic period has informed a hypothesis that the mass extinction that preceded it was caused by a ˈˈclathrate gun⸴ˈˈ while others attribute that extinction to the Siberian Traps. That mass extinction which preceded this period was the only known mass extinction of insects⸴ killed ninety-seven percent of marine species on Earth⸴ and is also known as the ˈˈGreat Dying.ˈˈ A mass extinction event at the end of this period cleared ecological niches that allowed the dinosaurs to become the dominant animals⸴ and it occurred immediately before the breakup of Pangaea. Name this geologic period which followed the Permian and preceded the Jurassic. - ttddTriassic period
Name the following organelles. This organelle named for an Italian biologist is responsible for sorting and packaging proteins for transport to the rest of the cell. - ttddGolgi body [or apparatus⸴ or complex]
Name the following organelles. This organelle⸴ which has ˈˈsmallˈˈ and ˈˈlargeˈˈ subunits⸴ is the site of translation⸴ a process in which RNA is used to synthesize proteins. - ttddRibosomes
Name the following organelles. The protein cytochrome c is typically found in this organelle. The fact that this organelle has its own DNA is a strong piece of evidence for a theory which asserts that this organelle was originally a distinct class of organism before being incorporated into cells through endosymbiosis. Parts of this organelle include cristae and the intermembrane space. This organelle is the analogue of the chloroplast in animals⸴ and ATP is synthesized inside this organelle. Identify this organelle which is the site of cellular respiration. - ttddMitochondria or Mitochondrion
Humans are mortal. Answer some questions about things that aren't. The ˈˈimmortalˈˈ variety of this type of animal is capable of reverting to a polyp stage⸴ meaning that it does not die of old age. Other kinds of this animal include the Irukandji types⸴ whose toxins can kill humans within minutes. - ttddJellyfish
Humans are mortal. Answer some questions about things that aren't. These relatives of jellyfish are not known to have their mortality rate increase with age. These animals derive their name from a mythological beast to which they share a visual similarity. - ttddHydras
Humans are mortal. Answer some questions about things that aren't. A specific variety of these cells can be transmitted between Tasmanian devils. The HeLa cell line is derived from cells of this type taken from Henrietta Lacks without her consent. Cells of this type are able to outlive their Hayflick limit because of a specific enzyme. Cells of this type typically express a higher number of oncogenes than normal. Cells of this type can spread to other locations via the blood or lymph via a process known as metastasis. Name this type of cell⸴ the uncontrolled multiplication of which is responsible for diseases such as melanoma and lymphoma⸴ and which forms tumors. - ttddCancer cells
Give the following related to the cardiovascular system. The heart contains mitral and tricuspid examples of these structures⸴ which allow blood to flow in only one direction. - ttddHeart valves
Give the following related to the cardiovascular system. This medical technique measures electrical signals produced by the heart. Its output includes P⸴ QRS⸴ and T regions. - ttddElectrocardiogram [or EKG; or ECG]
Give the following related to the cardiovascular system. It's not a cytochrome⸴ but the presence of this compound allows for the conversion of arachidonic acid to lipoxin⸴ a type of SPM. This compound prevents the production of prostaglandins by inhibiting the cyclooxygenase COX-2. When ingested by children⸴ this derivative of salicylic acid can cause mitochondrial damage in Reye's syndrome. This drug⸴ a type of NSAID⸴ is taken during heart attacks. Name this drug that is manufactured by Bayer⸴ which treats inflammation⸴ fever⸴ and pain. - ttddAspirin [or acetylsalicylic acid]
Answer these questions about poisonous elements. Arsenic poisoning is caused by arsenic's chemical similarity to this element⸴ allowing it to replace this element in compounds such as ATP⸴ which causes cells to be unable to store energy. - ttddPhosphorus
Answer these questions about poisonous elements. The metal cadmium is highly toxic because its ions cause cells to generate this compound with formula H2O2 which damages cells. - ttddHydrogen peroxide
Answer these questions about poisonous elements. A spill of a few drops of a compound containing this element and two CH3 groups was absorbed through researcher Karen Wetterhahn's latex gloves⸴ causing her death ten months later. Minamata disease⸴ an often-fatal neurological condition⸴ is caused by exposure to a methyl compound of this element. The presence of this element in the compound thimerosal has led to false claims that vaccines will cause poisoning of this element. Poisoning of this element can be caused by ingestion of certain fish high in it⸴ in particular tuna. Identify this metallic element which is liquid at room temperature. - ttddMercury
Answer the following about proteins. These Y-shaped proteins have a structure called a ˈˈparatopeˈˈ which binds to a specific chemical on the surface of a specific antigen. They are used by the immune system. - ttddAntibodies [or Immunoglobulins]
Answer the following about proteins. This protein hormone increases blood glucose levels by promoting gluconeogenesis⸴ giving it an opposite effect to insulin. - ttddGlucagon
Answer the following about proteins. This protein contains an abnormally high amount of the non-pro·teino·genic amino acid hy·droxy·proline. The most common amino acids which make up this protein are proline and glycine. This protein has a triple helix structure⸴ and several triple helices bind together to form fibrils⸴ which bind together to form fibers. When this protein is hydrolyzed⸴ the result is gelatin. This protein is the most abundant protein in mammals because of its ubiquity in connective tissue. Name this protein which makes up⸴ among other things⸴ ligaments⸴ bone⸴ tendons⸴ and cartilage. - ttddCollagen
Answer the following questions concerning geologic periods. Many fossils found in the Burgess Shale were from what first period of the Paleozoic Era that featured a namesake ˈˈexplosionˈˈ of new species? - ttddCambrian Period
Answer the following questions concerning geologic periods. Gondwanaland and Laurasia were formed during what period that was divided into the Mississippian and Pennsylvanian periods? It is named for the formation of coal beds that occurred during it. - ttddCarboniferous Period
Answer the following questions concerning geologic periods. Scaphites are important index fossils for this geologic period. Charles and George Sternberg collected many fossils from a Lagerstätte from this period called Smoky Hill. This period⸴ whose name is Latin for ˈˈchalk⸴ˈˈ saw the creation of the White Cliffs of Dover. Luis and Walter Alvarez found that a meteor impact at the Chicxulub site caused a mass extinction that ended this period⸴ which was followed by the Paleogene. The K-T extinction occurred following what geologic period during which the Triceratops⸴ Velociraptor⸴ and Tyrannosaurus Rex lived? - ttddCretaceous Period [prompt on ˈˈKˈˈ]
Answer these questions about model organisms. These Gram-negative bacteria have been used in studies of recombinant DNA. These bacteria⸴ some strains of which can cause serious food poisoning in humans⸴ are the most-used prokaryotic model organisms. - ttddE. coli [or Escherichia coli]
Answer these questions about model organisms. A well-known mutation in the Hox gene in these organisms causes additional legs to grow in place of their antennae. These insects⸴ which have only four chromosomes⸴ are commonly used for genetic research. - ttddFruit flies [or Drosophila melanogaster⸴ or D. melanogaster; prompt on ˈˈfliesˈˈ or just ˈˈmelanogasterˈˈ]
Answer these questions about model organisms. Gregor Mendel switched to using pea plants after conducting genetic experiments on these animals' colorings because his superior asked him to stop breeding ˈˈsmelly animals.ˈˈ C. C. Little developed the DBA⸴ or ˈˈdilute⸴ brown⸴ and non-Agouti⸴ˈˈ strain of these animals. Jackson Laboratory in Maine produces almost three million of these animals per year⸴ including so-called ˈˈknockoutˈˈ examples of these animals with individual genes removed. These animals were the second mammals to have their genome sequenced⸴ after humans. Identify these rodents commonly used for laboratory experiments. - ttddlaboratory mouse [or Mus musculus]
Name the following diseases which are less common today than in the past. This disease⸴ caused by the pathogen Yersinia pestis⸴ is named for the large painful and swollen lymph nodes that its sufferers often acquire in their groin⸴ neck⸴ and armpits. This disease and a similar ˈˈpneumonicˈˈ type caused a 2017 outbreak in Madagascar. - ttddBubonic plague [prompt on ˈˈPlagueˈˈ or the ˈˈBlack Deathˈˈ]
Name the following diseases which are less common today than in the past. This non-cholera disease causes diarrhea through an infection of the intestines⸴ which can cause death through dehydration. It can be caused by amoebas or by the Shigella bacteria. - ttddDysentery
Name the following diseases which are less common today than in the past. Robert Koch received the Nobel Prize in Medicine for isolating this disease's causative agent. This disease is caused by bacteria of the genus Mycobacterium. Most people infected with this disease are asymptomatic for a long time before the infection becomes ˈˈactive.ˈˈ This disease can be diagnosed with a chest X-ray and sputum cultures. Sufferers of this disease were often kept in sanatoria⸴ and an alternative name for this lung infection was derived from its causing weight loss and wasting. Identify this infection of the lungs also known as consumption. - ttddTuberculosis [or TB; prompt on ˈˈConsumptionˈˈ]
Name some vitamins. Golden rice was created to provide one of the precursors of this vitamin in diets lacking it⸴ because a deficiency of this vitamin⸴ especially in childhood⸴ can lead to blindness. - ttddVitamin A
Name some vitamins. Deficiency of this vitamin can cause uncontrolled bleeding because of its role in blood clotting. This vitamin also permits proteins to bind to calcium ions⸴ and chemically is composed of 2-methyl-1⸴4-naph·tho·qui·none derivatives. - ttddVitamin K
Name some vitamins. This is the only non-B vitamin to be water soluble rather than fat soluble. A disease caused by a lack of this vitamin can result in brown spots on the skin⸴ sore limbs⸴ gum disease⸴ and bleeding from mucus membranes. Linus Pauling claimed that this vitamin prevented the common cold⸴ a claim for which there is no empirical evidence. Scurvy is caused by a deficiency of this vitamin⸴ which can be provided by citrus fruits such as oranges. Identify this vitamin also known as ascorbic acid. - ttddVitamin C [accept Ascorbic acid before mentioned]
Answer the following about actin. Actin⸴ along with myosin⸴ are two molecules important to the structure of the sarcomere⸴ which is responsible for contracting these body structures. - ttddMuscles
Answer the following about actin. Actin also makes up microfilaments⸴ which along with microtubules and intermediate filaments make up this cell structure responsible for giving the cell its shape. - ttddCytoskeleton
Answer the following about actin. A part of these structures called an axoneme consisting of nine fused pairs of microtubules is present in these structures in eukaryotes. In bacteria⸴ these structures have a hook joined by a junction to a filament. These structures use a bending motion in eukaryotes but a rotary motion in prokaryotes. These structures are present in sperm cells and allow them to move towards the egg. Identify these cellular structures which consist of long protrusions and allow cells to move independently. - ttddFlagellum or Flagella
Answer the following about the endoplasmic reticulum. There are two different types of endoplasmic reticulum⸴ which are distinguished by⸴ and named for⸴ the presence or absence of ribosomes on their surfaces. Name both. - ttddSmooth and Rough
Answer the following about the endoplasmic reticulum. The smooth ER synthesizes⸴ among other things⸴ these molecules present in cell membranes. These molecules have two hydrophobic ˈˈtailsˈˈ and a hydrophilic ˈˈhead.ˈˈ - ttddPhospholipids
Answer the following about the endoplasmic reticulum. A special type of ER present in muscle tissue⸴ the sarcoplasmic reticulum⸴ is used to synthesize and release this ion. It's not potassium⸴ but an ˈˈexchangerˈˈ named for sodium and this ion is found in the endoplasmic reticulum and the mitochondria. Parathyroid hormone increases the concentration of this ion in the bloodstream⸴ and hyperparathyroidism can therefore result in osteoporosis by removing too much of this ion from where it is stored. Identify this ion whose phosphate and sulfate are the primary components of bone. - ttddCalcium
Answer these questions about a certain type of enzyme. This enzyme⸴ found in a number of viruses⸴ generates DNA from an RNA template⸴ an action for which it is named. This enzyme performs the opposite process as RNA polymerase. - ttddReverse transcriptase [prompt on partial answer]
Answer these questions about a certain type of enzyme. The HIV virus is a member of this class of viruses which integrate their genome into the genome of host cells by using reverse transcriptase. - ttddRetroviruses
Answer these questions about a certain type of enzyme. In vertebrates⸴ this enzyme creates the DNA sequence TTAGGG. This enzyme is a special class of reverse transcriptase which carries its own RNA sequence. This enzyme's function is instead performed by retrotransposons in Drosophila. The activation of this enzyme occurs in almost all human cancers because this enzyme permits cells to divide rapidly without losing genetic information. This enzyme restores material which is typically lost during DNA replication. Identify this enzyme which restores the tips of chromosomes. - ttddTelomerase
Answer some questions about a certain amino acid. This amino acid⸴ contrary to popular belief⸴ isn't any more common in turkey than other poultry. This amino acid has also been claimed to cause post-Thanksgiving drowsiness because it is a precursor for melatonin. - ttddTryptophan
Answer some questions about a certain amino acid. Tryptophan is a precursor for this neurotransmitter thought to cause happy moods. SSRIs⸴ a common class of antidepressants⸴ are named because they prevent reuptake of this neurotransmitter. - ttddSerotonin
Answer some questions about a certain amino acid. This letter is used to represent tryptophan in the one-letter amino acid code. This letter is used in IUPAC notation to represent a nucleotide which can be either A or T. The element whose symbol is this letter is used similarly to molybdenum⸴ which it is located below⸴ by some prokaryotes. This letter is the abbreviation for a unit equal to a joule per second. Identify this letter which is the chemical symbol for tungsten⸴ as well as the first letter in the SI unit of power. - ttddW
Answer some questions about chloroplasts. The light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis take place at the membrane of this subunit of the chloroplast. - ttddThylakoid
Answer some questions about chloroplasts. Like mitochondria⸴ chloroplasts have this quality⸴ which means that they possess an intermembrane space. - ttddThey have two membranes
Answer some questions about chloroplasts. It's not green⸴ but the light-harvesting pigment phycoerythrin absorbs all but this color of light⸴ which results in the existence of algae of this color. The Japanese product nori is produced from a member of the class of algae named for this color⸴ which also includes agarophytes⸴ which produce agar. Toxic algal blooms caused by Karenia bravis take on this color⸴ causing such blooms to be known as this type of tide. Hemoglobin is found in a class of cells named for this color. Identify this non-white color which names a class of blood cells. - ttddRed
Identify these answer lines related to malignancy. What term is applied to the process of a primary source of cancer spreading to a secondary sight somewhere else in the body? - ttddMetastasis
Identify these answer lines related to malignancy. The N category of cancer staging is primarily determined by if the cancer has reached what bean shaped immune system structures that can become swollen when infected? - ttddLymph Nodes
Identify these answer lines related to malignancy. The monoclonal antibody trastuzumab can be used to manage the HER2 positive type of this cancer and genetic screening for risk to develop this type of cancer involves screening for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations. Management of this cancer may also involve the use of hormonal therapy like aromatase inhibitors of selective estrogen receptor modulators if the cancer is ER and PR positive. What is this type of cancer that in non-invasive circumstances may be managed with a mastectomy? - ttddBreast Cancer
Name these neurotransmitters. What neurotransmitter that binds to 5-HT receptors is the primary target of SSRI antidepressants because of its role in regulating mood and appetite? - ttddSerotonin
Name these neurotransmitters. What neurotransmitter increases stomach acid secretion when binding to its class 2 receptors and regulates allergic reactions when binding to its class 1 receptors? - ttddHistamine
Name these neurotransmitters. This hormone was initially administered to critically ill patients with impaired renal function before the benefit was proven to be negligible. Blockage of this hormone's receptors can lead to unopposed acetylcholine activity causing dystonia. This hormone is the precursor to norepinephrine. This hormone is depleted from the substantia nigra in patients with Parkinsonˈs disease. What is this hormone that regulates reward seeking behaviors and binds to ˈˈDˈˈ receptors? - ttddDopamine
Answer some questions about transcription and RNA. Transcription is performed by what enzyme⸴ which opens the DNA double helix and produces a strand of RNA matching it? - ttddRNA polymerase [prompt on ˈˈpolymeraseˈˈ]
Answer some questions about transcription and RNA. If the gene being transcribed encodes a protein⸴ the RNA produced will be what kind of RNA? - ttddMessenger RNA [or mRNA]
Answer some questions about transcription and RNA. One form of this process⸴ which does not use a transesterification reaction like the more common forms of this process⸴ occurs almost exclusively in tRNA. This process removes a section of RNA which usually begins with a GU sequence and ends with an AG sequence. This process is catalyzed by a large protein complex⸴ which comes in ˈˈmajorˈˈ and ˈˈminorˈˈ types and is composed of smaller proteins known as snRNPs [ˈˈsnurpsˈˈ]. Identify this process in which introns are removed from RNA sequences and exons are joined together. - ttddSplicing
Identify some sexually transmitted diseases. What retroviral STD that invades the body's helper T-cells is classified as AIDS when the helper T-cell count drops below 200? - ttddHuman Immunodeficiency Virus
Identify some sexually transmitted diseases. What incurable STD⸴ which has a similar strain that causes cold sores⸴ causes painful genital lesions when emotional or physical stress re-activates the virus? - ttddHerpes Simplex Virus (accept HSV)
Identify some sexually transmitted diseases. In 1256⸴ Louis IX issued a decree that banished all people who had been inflicted with this disease. When diagnosing this sexually transmitted disease⸴ observing Gram negative double ball-shaped bacteria on a stain of pus in a male is diagnostic. Treatment of this disease is usually a single injection of ceftriaxone and anytime this disease is suspected the patient should also receive treatment for Chlamydia as co-infection is so common. What is this sexually transmitted disease nicknamed ˈˈthe clapˈˈ? - ttddGonorrhea
Identify these amino acids. What amino acid⸴ one of only two that contains sulfur⸴ is coded for by only a single AUG codon and is used to mark where protein synthesis is to start? - ttddMethionine
Identify these amino acids. What amino acid⸴ the only other amino acid to contain sulfur⸴ forms disulfide bonds via its thiol side chains that are broken by perm solution when perming hair? - ttddCysteine
Identify these amino acids. Kinases that transfer phosphate from ATP to a protein named for this amino acid have become prime targets for anti-cancer drugs due to their role in unregulated cell growth when they become stuck in the ˈˈonˈˈ position. Patients suffering from phenylketonuria cannot convert phenylalanine to this amino acid leading to insufficient levels. This amino acid is the direct precursor to L-DOPA⸴ which is later converted to key neurotransmitters like dopamine and norepinephrine. What is this non-essential amino acid symbolized ˈˈYˈˈ? - ttddTyrosine
Name these plant hormones given a description. What plant hormone drives gravitropism and phototropism to promote cell elongation and root formation? - ttddAuxin
Name these plant hormones given a description. What plant hormone whose production is stimulated by auxin is responsible for promoting fruit ripening and stem thickening? - ttddEthylene
Name these plant hormones given a description. This hormone inhibits production of a-amylase to inhibit seed germination and promotes synthesis of storage proteins. This hormone promotes stomata closure leading some to refer to this hormone as ˈˈdorminˈˈ as it promotes seed dormancy. Frederick Addicott discovered this hormone which can promote the ripening of fruit. Identify this plant hormone that was initially named due to the fact that it was believed this hormone was responsible for promoting the shedding of leaves in the winter or ˈˈabscissionˈˈ? - ttddAbscisic Acid
Answer some questions related to counting sheep. Sleep cycle is included in what set of endogenous biological oscillations of approximately 24 hours that can become out of sync when traveling across time zones? - ttddCircadian Rhythm(s)
Answer some questions related to counting sheep. Many overweight patients are impacted by the obstructive type of what temporary cessation of breathing that typically afflicts people while they are sleeping? - ttddApnea
Answer some questions related to counting sheep. Ramelteon and tasimelteon are two supplements that selectively bind receptors of this hormone⸴ the latter of which was approved for use in blind people due to the inability of their retinas to cue the brain to the time of day⸴ thus disrupting their circadian rhythm. Wearing blue blocking goggles before bedtime may decrease loss of this hormone as certain wavelengths of light will reduce its production. Supplements of this hormone can be taken to help reduce jet lag. What is this hormone secreted by the pineal gland that regulates wakefulness and can also be supplemented to treat insomnia? - ttddMelatonin
Name these diseases caused by bacteria. A scare in 2001 came in the form of mailed letters containing powder that would cause this disease. This often- fatal disease is caused by a bacterium of the genus Bacillus. - ttddanthrax
Name these diseases caused by bacteria. This disease⸴ caused by species of the genus Borrelia⸴ is carried by a tick and named after a town in Connecticut. - ttddLyme disease
Name these diseases caused by bacteria. In 2013⸴ a new form of this disease was discovered and named type H. In this disease⸴ a toxin splits into its heavy and light chains⸴ allowing it to degrade SNARES and prevent vesicle fusion⸴ which stops neurotransmitter release. This disease is usually contracted when spores of the causative bacteria are ingested or directly enter the bloodstream⸴ and it is classified into foodborne⸴ infant⸴ and wound types. This disease causes muscle weakness that can escalate to paralysis and respiratory failure. It is caused by a species of genus Clostridium. Name this disease that is caused by the same toxin used in botox (BOH-tox). - ttddbotulism (BOTCH-uh-lizm)
Name these animal phyla. This phylum consists of flatworms; notable members include tapeworms⸴ planarians⸴ and turbellaria. - ttddPlatyhelminthes (pla-tee-hel-MIN-theez)
Name these animal phyla. Sea cucumbers and sea urchins are part of this phylum⸴ which have a water vascular system and radial symmetry. - ttddEchinodermata (ih-KYE-no-der-MAH-tuh) or echinoderms
Name these animal phyla. A group of organisms within this phylum undergo retrogressive metamorphosis when shifting from a larval form to a mature form⸴ thus becoming sessile. Some organisms in this phylum have a mucus-producing organ called the endostyle. Sea squirts and lancelets belong to this phylum. One of this phylum's characteristic aspects is the formation of pharyngeal (fuh-RIN-gee-uhl) slits. Along with Echinodermata⸴ this phylum's members develop the anus before the mouth during gastrulation⸴ and are thus classified as Deuterostomes. All members of this phylum possess a notochord⸴ which⸴ in its more advanced organisms⸴ develops into a spine. Name this phylum which contains all vertebrates. - ttddChordata or chordates
Answer the following about viruses. This outer layer of a virus surrounds its genetic material. It is made up of proteins⸴ sometimes arranged in shapes such as icosahedrons or cylinders. - ttddcapsid
Answer the following about viruses. Viruses that infect bacteria are specifically known by this term. - ttddbacteriophages
Answer the following about viruses. This virus attaches to host cells using the surface glyco·protein gp120. Genes essential to this virus's function and replication are tat and rev. People resistant to this virus are known as long term non·progressors⸴ since they fail to show the most severe symptoms it causes. Drugs used to combat this virus include Combivir⸴ which includes the molecule AzT. This virus's pol gene encodes for an integrase and reverse transcriptase. This lenti·virus causes low levels of helper T cells⸴ which in turn severely weakens the body's immune response. Name this retrovirus that is the causative agent of AIDS. - ttddHIV or human immunodeficiency virus [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈAIDSˈˈ]
Answer the following about the mitochondria. The inner folds of a mitochondrion's inner membrane are given this name. - ttddcristae
Answer the following about the mitochondria. This system⸴ the last portion of cellular respiration⸴ takes place in the mitochondria and creates a proton gradient to generate ATP. - ttddETC or electron transport chain [prompt on partial answers]
Answer the following about the mitochondria. A mitochondrial protein involved in this cellular process normally transfers electrons from coenzyme Q to complex IV (four) of the electron transport chain. During this process⸴ phosphatidyl (FOSS-fa-tuh-dil) serine is expressed on the plasma membrane. This process can be induced by TNF or by the Fas ligand. Cisplatin can cause this process to occur since it suppresses DNA repair mechanisms. Cyto∙chrome c is released from the mitochondria during this process⸴ after which it activates caspases. This process is intentional⸴ unlike necrosis. Name this process of programmed cell death. - ttddapoptosis
Name these parts of the human body. This gland produces calcitonin⸴ and it is affected in Grave's disease and goiter⸴ the latter of which occurs with an iodine deficiency. - ttddthyroid gland
Name these parts of the human body. This organ⸴ in which old red blood cells are destroyed⸴ consists of red pulp and white pulp. - ttddspleen
Name these parts of the human body. Problems in this organ can be detected if high amounts of trans·aminases are found within it. A process that occurs primarily in this organ converts two lactate molecules into one glucose molecule⸴ then sends the glucose back to muscle cells. The falci·form ligament divides this organ into two parts. Macro·phages named Kupffer cells are located here. The Cori cycle⸴ gluco·neo·genesis⸴ and the urea cycle occur primarily in this organ. This organ converts bilirubin to a more water-soluble form. This organ secretes bile⸴ which can be stored in the nearby gallbladder. It is damaged by cirrhosis (sir-ROH-sis) and hepatitis. Name this largest internal organ of the body. - ttddliver
Name these structures found within a typical cell. This portion of the cyto·skeleton is organized by MTOCs. Dynein (ˈˈDIEˈˈ-neen) and kinesin move across them. - ttddmicrotubules
Name these structures found within a typical cell. This part within the nucleus is the location where ribosomes are synthesized. - ttddnucleolus
Name these structures found within a typical cell. L-form bacteria are artificially created to lack this structure⸴ while mycoplasmas are bacteria that naturally do not have it. Vanco·mycin is a glyco·peptide antibiotic that inhibits its synthesis. In some organisms⸴ the outermost portion of it is called the middle lamella. This structure can be bypassed using plasmodesmata and sometimes contains a waxy portion called the Casparian strip. In diatoms⸴ this structure is called a frustule (FRUST-yule) and is comprised of silica. The lignin is found in this structure in plants. Name this protective layer of the cell⸴ which is made of pep·tido·glycan in bacteria and cellulose in plants. - ttddcell walls [prompt on ˈˈwallsˈˈ]
Answer the following about the eye. This liquid⸴ found between the cornea and iris⸴ is constantly produced. Irregular levels of its production or drainage can lead to glaucoma. - ttddvitreous (VIT-ree-uss) humor
Answer the following about the eye. This portion of the retina contains the fovea and is its most sensitive portion. Vision impairment in older individuals can be caused by its degeneration. - ttddmacula
Answer the following about the eye. These animals have eyes with light sensors that directly receive incoming light instead of reflecting it off the back first⸴ and they move their lens instead of changing its shape. It's not fish⸴ but Vibrio fischeri is found within one member of this class. Some members of this animal class have a tube running from the center of their body to the outside of their shell called a siphuncle. A still-living early example of this class of invertebrates is the nautilus. They have the most advanced eye out of all invertebrates. When escaping⸴ these animals can release a cloud of ink. Name this class of mollusks which includes cuttlefish and squid. - ttddcephalopods or cephalopoda
Answer the following regarding lab techniques. In this technique⸴ often done in mice⸴ a gene is made unusable in an organism. This is done to study the function of the removed gene. - ttddgene knockout
Answer the following regarding lab techniques. This technique allows one to separate molecules such as DNA by size by sending an electrical current through a medium made of agarose or poly·acryl·amide. - ttddgel electro·phoresis
Answer the following regarding lab techniques. Magnesium chloride is an important reagent in this technique since the magnesium cat·ion is a cofactor of the central enzyme. A variant of this technique is used to check for the presence of specific mRNA⸴ and it can be used to detect and quantify certain viruses. This process was devised by Kary Mullis. An enzyme essential to this process is taken from the bacterium Thermus aquaticus. This technique takes place in a thermal cycler⸴ which allows it to repeatedly cycle through denaturation⸴ annealing⸴ and elongation steps. Name this technique in which a piece of DNA is copied millions of times. - ttddpolymerase chain reaction or PCR [accept real time PCR or RT-PCR]
Answer the following questions about evolution. Darwin's finches underwent this process⸴ since they all derive from a single ancestor to occupy many niches within the ecosystem. - ttddadaptive radiation
Answer the following questions about evolution. Named after a literary character⸴ this theory states that organisms evolve to not only increase their survival but also to do so against competitors⸴ prey⸴ predators⸴ hosts⸴ or parasites. - ttddRed Queen hypothesis [accept any equivalent answer with Red Queen in it]
Answer the following questions about evolution. The Court Jester hypothesis gives a method for this evolutionary theory to work⸴ as it describes randomly- occurring abiotic changes in the environment that cause changes to occur. This idea emphasizes clado·genesis over ana·genesis. This theory accounts for speciation events as those that drive change. It built upon Ernst Mayr's observation that there were gaps in the fossil record. This idea opposes gradualism⸴ which states that evolution occurs slowly but constantly. Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould put forth what theory of evolution characterized by short bursts of change followed by long periods of stasis? - ttddpunctuated equilibrium
Answer these questions about respiratory illnesses. What gram positive bacterial infection associated with a sore throat with white patchy exudates that can develop into scarlet fever? - ttddStreptococcal Pharyngitis (accept Strep Throat)
Answer these questions about respiratory illnesses. What most common virus to infect humans and major cause of the common cold is named for the fact that it mainly impacts the nasal passages and is not named for a large animal? - ttddRhinovirus
Answer these questions about respiratory illnesses. One infectious agent that can cause this disease was formerly name P. carinii prior to being renamed P. jirovecii after it was discovered to be a human-specific pathogen. This disease can be sub-classified as hospital-acquired⸴ community-acquired⸴ or viral depending on presentation prior to diagnosis. Atypical organisms⸴ H. influenza⸴ and a namesake streptococcus species are the most common agents that cause what infection that results in lung inflammation? - ttddPneumonia
Identify these organelles given a description. What organelle that is full of catalase is used to break down a namesake compound with formula H2O2? - ttddPeroxisome
Identify these organelles given a description. What specific organelle that lacks ribosomes on its surface serves to detoxify alcohol and synthesize lipids and steroids? - ttddSmooth Endoplasmic Reticulum (prompt on partial answer)
Identify these organelles given a description. This organelleˈs function can be disrupted by nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors resulting in lipodystrophy and lactic acidosis. This occurs due to the disruption of the beta oxidation and cellular respiration processes that are facilitated by this organelle. That disruption occurs when a drug mistakenly incorporates itself into this organelleˈs DNA⸴ the existence of which supports the endosymbiotic theory that this organelle may have once lived as an independent organism. What is this organelle with an inner membrane called the ˈˈcristaeˈˈ that serves as the powerhouse of the cell? - ttddMitochondria
Identify the following related to the liver. The liver makes and stores what multi-branched polysaccharide of glucose that stores energy from carbohydrates in the body? - ttddGlycogen
Identify the following related to the liver. When the liver fails⸴ bilirubin can build up in the blood causing a yellowing of the skin and eyes known by what term? - ttddJaundice
Identify the following related to the liver. A concentration of this bodily molecule can be lowered by inhibiting the PCSK9 enzymes from blocking receptors that remove it from the blood. More common ways of lowering this substance include blocking the Niemann- Pick cells in the intestines from absorbing it or by blocking the HmG-CoA reductase from synthesizing it in the liver. What is this bodily molecule that aids in membrane fluidity whose good and bad forms are known as HDL and LDL respectively? - ttddCholesterol (accept LDL before mentioned)
Identify the following vitamins. What class of fat soluble vitamins⸴ whoˈs synthetic form is known as phytonadione⸴ serve to promote the formation of clotting factors? - ttddVitamin K
Identify the following vitamins. What class of fat soluble vitamins⸴ including tocopherols⸴ are thought to serve an antioxidant function in cell membranes whose deficiency can cause nerve problems? - ttddVitamin E
Identify the following vitamins. This vitamin has been co-administered with iron tablets to increase their absorption in iron deficient patients due to its ability to chelate iron in a low pH environment. Excessive intake of this vitamin has been linked to kidney stone formation. Bleeding mucous membranes⸴ spongy gums⸴ and loose teeth can all result from a deficiency of this vitamin due to its role in collagen synthesis. What is this water soluble vitamin also known as ascorbic acid whose deficiency can cause scurvy? - ttddVitamin C (accept ascorbic acid before mentioned)
Identify the following chronic disease conditions. What disease⸴ known as gestational when occurring during pregnancy⸴ has a Type 1 type where no insulin is produced and a Type 2 type that confers insulin resistance? - ttddDiabetes Mellitus
Identify the following chronic disease conditions. What disease whose name means joint inflammation comes in a ˈˈrheumatoidˈˈ variety that is autoimmune and an ˈˈosteoˈˈ variety that causes crepitus from overuse? - ttddArthritis
Identify the following chronic disease conditions. This disease can potentially be triggered by inhibition of VEGF and renal artery stenosis is a possible secondary cause of this disease. Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers⸴ angiotensin receptor blockers⸴ and alpha blockers are all classes of agents used to treat this disease. This disease can be worsened by overuse of anti-inflammatory drugs and excessive salt intake. A sphygmomanometer can be used to monitor what very prevalent cardiovascular risk factor defined as abnormally high blood pressure? - ttddHypertension (accept High Blood Pressure before mentioned)
Name the following animal phyla given a description. What phylum includes ˈˈsegmentedˈˈ or ˈˈringedˈˈ worms like earthworms? - ttddAnnelids or Annelida
Name the following animal phyla given a description. What phylum includes flatworms like flukes and tapeworms? - ttddPlatyhelminthes
Name the following animal phyla given a description. Some members of this phyla can induce a syndrome of catecholamine excess in their victims after releasing venom into them. Classes within this phyla include Staurozoa⸴ Cubozoa⸴ the sessile Anthozoa⸴ and the diverse Hydrozoa that includes the Portuguese Man oˈ War. Members of this phyla possess stinging structures called nematocysts. Animals in this phyla have two body forms⸴ the medusae and the polyps⸴ both of which have a single orifice for digestion and respiration. Named for its barb like stinging cells⸴ what is this aquatic⸴ radially symmetric phylum that contains coral⸴ anemones⸴ and jellyfish? - ttddCnidaria
Identify the following disease states for which a vaccine has been developed. What virus⸴ that can cause paralysis⸴ has oral and injectable vaccines that were discovered by Albert Sabin and Jonas Salk⸴ respectively? - ttddPolio
Identify the following disease states for which a vaccine has been developed. What infection that is related to chickenpox is also known as herpes zoster? This infection results in a painful skin rash and is more common in patients over 50. - ttddShingles
Identify the following disease states for which a vaccine has been developed. The vaccine for this illness has been linked to both tetanus and diphtheria and the acellular version of its vaccine was developed to reduce the side effects of vaccination. As of 2012⸴ due to a large number of outbreaks across the United States⸴ the vaccine for preventing this disease is now recommended to all pregnant patients to provide passive immunity to infants. What is this highly contagious bacterial disease that causes a cough so forceful that it may break ribs and makes a distinct sound leading it to be nicknamed ˈˈWhooping Coughˈˈ? - ttddPertussis (accept Whooping Cough before mentioned)
Identify the following related to genetic mutation. Splice site mutations occur when genetic material remains in mRNA from what segments of RNA that do not code for proteins that are normally removed? - ttddIntron
Identify the following related to genetic mutation. Mutations can be created in bacteria by inserting DNA into what small circular DNA molecules that are physically separated from their chromosomal DNA? - ttddPlasmid
Identify the following related to genetic mutation. Common models that attempt to explain this process include the Moran model⸴ Kimuraˈs neutral model⸴ and the Wright-Fisher model. When this happens naturally⸴ such as due to a natural disaster⸴ it is known as the bottleneck effect and when it occurs due to human decision to form an isolated new population⸴ it is known as the Founder effect. What is this variation in relative allele frequency due to the chance disappearance of particular genes as individuals die or do not reproduce? - ttddGenetic Drift
Answer the following about extinct animals. A long beak is theorized to have been part of these extinct dinosaurs⸴ whose name means ˈˈwinged finger.ˈˈ - ttddpterodactyls (teh-ruh-DACK-till) [or pterodactylus antiquus; do not accept ˈˈpterosaur(s)ˈˈ or ˈˈpteranodon(s)ˈˈ]
Answer the following about extinct animals. This extinct dinosaur⸴ which Othniel Marsh theorized had a ˈˈsecond brain⸴ˈˈ possessed large plates that covered its body⸴ leading to a name meaning ˈˈcovered lizard.ˈˈ - ttddstegosaurus
Answer the following about extinct animals. One species of this animal⸴ Lipotes vexillifer (LIP-oh-teez vex-ILL-ih-ferr)⸴ possibly became extinct in the 21st century. One type of this animal in the Iniidae (in-ˈˈEYEˈˈ-uh-dee) family dwells in the Amazon River. Dr. Philibert Commerson gives his name to a type of these animals that resembles pandas and dwells near Tierra del Fuego (tee-ˈˈAIRˈˈ- uh dell foo-AY-goh). The baiji (ˈˈBYEˈˈ-jee) species of this animal used to inhabit the Yangtze (yang-see) River but is now thought to have become extinct. This cetacean (suh-TAY-shun) animal uses echo·location clicks to communicate. Name this intelligent marine mammal⸴ one type of which is the bottlenose. - ttdddolphins [or Delphidae; accept baiji dolphins or Chinese river dolphins or Yangtze River dolphins or whitefin dolphins or Amazon River dolphins or Commerson's dolphins or bottlenose dolphins]
Name these organelles. This organelle is often known as the ˈˈpowerhouse of the cellˈˈ since it provides the cell with the ATP it needs. - ttddmitochondrion or mitochondria
Name these organelles. This organelle is responsible for conducting photo·synthesis in plants. - ttddchloroplasts
Name these organelles. One type of these organelles is called the auto·phagosome (ah-toh-FAYZH-uh-zome) and is responsible for directing material to a lysosome (ˈˈLIEˈˈ-soh-sohm). These organelles are coated with a triskelion-shaped protein called clathrin. A tonoplast is a membrane that surrounds these organelles⸴ whose ˈˈcontractileˈˈ type is used by some protists to remove water from the cell. (*) Vesicles can merge to form one of these organelles⸴ a large example of which is often found at the center of plant cells. Name these organelles that store food and water for the cell. - ttddvacuoles (VAK-yoo-ohl) [accept contractile vacuoles; accept vesicles before (*)]
Name these bio·chemists. Molecular chirality was discovered when tartaric acid was analyzed by this biochemist who⸴ along with Ferdinand Cohn and Robert Koch⸴ is one of the three fathers of microbiology. - ttddLouis Pasteur
Name these bio·chemists. This biochemist discovered the primary structure of insulin by studying cows and also pioneered a namesake method of DNA sequencing. - ttddFrederick Sanger (SANG-ur)
Name these bio·chemists. Howard Florey conducted the clinical trials for a substance that this scientist discovered⸴ leading him to notably exclaim ˈˈthat's funny!ˈˈ By mixing nasal mucus with a culture of bacteria⸴ this man discovered an enzyme that destroys bacterial cell walls by disrupting a glyco·sylitic linkage. This discoverer of lysozyme also accidentally found that a substance secreted by a certain fungus could be used as an antibiotic against pneumonia. Name this Scottish biochemist who in 1928 isolated penicillin. - ttddSir Alexander Fleming
Name these diseases with high mortality rates. Prions (PRY-onz) are known to cause this disease⸴ which kills nearly all the namesake creatures it infects. This condition is sometimes known by the acronym BSE (ˈˈB-S-Eˈˈ). - ttddmad cow disease [accept bovine spongiform encephalopathy (en-SEFF-uh-lahp-uh-thee)]
Name these diseases with high mortality rates. The bacterium Y. pestis is known to cause this disease⸴ which is primarily spread by fleas. It is characterized by the formation of pustules⸴ unlike its septicemic (sep-tuh-SEE-mik) and pneumonic counterparts. - ttddbubonic plague [prompt on ˈˈplagueˈˈ]
Name these diseases with high mortality rates. Until 2004⸴ no human was known to have survived this disease⸴ as it was thought to be 100% fatal. That survivor⸴ Jeanna Giese (JEE-see)⸴ was given the Milwaukee Protocol⸴ which put her in a coma to help combat this disease. The Purified Duck embryo vaccine is used to prevent this disease⸴ which was historically called (*) hydro·phobia since victims of it have difficulty swallowing. Name this disease often spread by ˈˈmadˈˈ animals⸴ such as a dog that is foaming from the mouth. - ttddrabies [accept hydrophobia before (*)]
Identify the following about ecology. After a destructive event⸴ such as a forest fire⸴ the ˈˈprimaryˈˈ type of this process often occurs. This process is the growth of new species in an environment. - ttddecological succession [accept primary succession]
Identify the following about ecology. This is the term for the first new species that engages in ecological succession. Swordferns are often said to be one of these on newly created volcanic islands. - ttddpioneer species
Identify the following about ecology. This term was coined by Pierre-Joseph van Beneden in the 1875 book Animal Parasites and Messmates⸴ which presented around 250 examples of this interaction. Two examples of this kind of relationship are phoresy⸴ used by mites⸴ and meta·biosis⸴ used by maggots. The classic example of this situation is barnacles attached to the bottom of whales. Name this kind of relationship between two organisms in which one benefits while the other is unharmed⸴ in contrast to parasitism and mutualism. - ttddcommensalism
Answer these questions about a particular biological phenomenon. ˈˈTonic labyrinthineˈˈ and ˈˈgastro·colicˈˈ are examples of this kind of biological movement⸴ which is an innate response to a stimulus. - ttddreflex action
Answer these questions about a particular biological phenomenon. One type of stretch reflex that exists is named after this sesamoid (SESS-uh-moyd) bone⸴ which is located near the bottom of a set of four muscles that include the rectus femoris (REK-tis fuh-MOR-iss) and vastus medialis (VAS-tuss mee-dee-AA-liss). - ttddpatella [accept patellar reflex; prompt on ˈˈkneecapˈˈ]
Answer these questions about a particular biological phenomenon. This body part being hit during a reflex test can result in the Babinski sign⸴ which is usually indicated when a portion of this body part known as the hallux points upward. These body parts are affected by tarsal tunnel syndrome. This body part appears in the colloquial name of the skin infection tinea pedis⸴ which is often contracted in locker rooms. One end of this body part contains the phalanges (fuh-LAN-jeez) bones⸴ while the other end contains a joint that is at the bottom end of the tibia and fibula. Name this part of the body that contains the ankle and toes. - ttddfeet or foot
Identify the following model organisms. This nematode model organism⸴ which is a species of roundworm⸴ was the first animal to have its genome sequenced. - ttddC. elegans (EL-ih-gahns) [or Caenorhabditis elegans]
Identify the following model organisms. Insulin was artificially synthesized by manipulating the genome of this model bacteria⸴ some varieties of which can produce vitamin K2 (ˈˈK-2ˈˈ). - ttddE. coli [or Escherichia coli]
Identify the following model organisms. In the mitochondria of these organisms⸴ a tethering complex called ERMES (ˈˈE-R-M-E-Sˈˈ) is used to transfer lipids. Aging proteins called sirtuins were first discovered in this group of organisms. Eduard Buchner won a Nobel Prize for isolating zymase from this organism⸴ which he used to make ˈˈpress juice.ˈˈ Due to its simplicity⸴ this was the first eukaryotic organism to have its genome completely sequenced. The model species (*) S. cerevisiae (seh-reh-VEE- see-ay) is an example of the ˈˈbuddingˈˈ type of this (**) fungus. Fermentation is carried out by what organism that is used by bakers as a leavening agent? - ttddyeasts [accept budding yeasts; accept Saccharomyces cerevisiae before (*); prompt on fungus or fungi before (**)]
Answer the following about vaccines. While working at the University of Pittsburgh⸴ this scientist became the first person to create a successful vaccine for polio. - ttddJonas Edward Salk
Answer the following about vaccines. German measles is another name for this viral disease that is one of the namesakes of the MMR (ˈˈM-M-Rˈˈ) vaccine. - ttddrubella (roo-BEL-lah) [accept three-day measles; do not accept ˈˈrubeolaˈˈ]
Answer the following about vaccines. Dukoral is the common trade name for a preventive and reactive vaccine used to combat this disease. An 1854 outbreak of this disease in London was mapped by the epidemiologist John Snow. In Asian countries⸴ this disease is often prevented by using a sari cloth as a filter. A Vibrio (VIB-ree-oh) species of bacteria causes this disease⸴ which is characterized by severe dehydration caused by excessive diarrhea. Name this disease that is often caused by drinking water that has been contaminated with fecal matter. - ttddcholera (KAH-lur-uh) [accept Vibrio cholerae]
Answer the following about biological tests. Scores between 0 and 10 are possible on this test that is utilized to quickly determine the health of newborn babies. - ttddApgar test or Apgar score
Answer the following about biological tests. The Mantoux (ˈˈman-tooˈˈ) test is often performed to determine if a person has this disease⸴ which is caused by a myco·bacterium. - ttddtuberculosis or TB [accept Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection; prompt on ˈˈconsumptionˈˈ]
Answer the following about biological tests. The SKY (ˈˈskyˈˈ) technique is often used to visualize the results of this biological test in color. G-banding⸴ or Giemsa banding⸴ is one way to perform this kind of test⸴ which is often used to detect if a subject will have a deformed larynx in cri du chat (kree doo shah) syndrome. These tests clearly display poly·ploidy disorders⸴ such as Down Syndrome⸴ in which three structures will appear above the number ˈˈ21.ˈˈ Name this technique in which the chromosomes of a human are visualized. - ttddkaryotypes or karyotyping [accept spectral karyotyping]
Answer the following about the lungs. When swallowing⸴ food is prevented from traveling down the trachea (ˈˈTRAYˈˈ-kee-uh) into the lungs by this piece of cartilage⸴ which opens during breathing to allow the passage of air. - ttddepiglottis (ep-ih-GLAH-tiss) [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈglottisˈˈ]
Answer the following about the lungs. This is the name of the liquid which is found in the lungs that increases the ability of the lung to expand since it decreases overall surface tension. - ttddpulmonary surfactant
Answer the following about the lungs. Certain organisms within this class of animals utilize palpal bulbs during copulation. One type of animal within this class⸴ which comes in ˈˈpinktoeˈˈ and ˈˈTexas brownˈˈ varieties⸴ sometimes uses urticating hairs as a defense mechanism. Thin leaf-like membranes comprise the book lungs that are utilized by many members of this class. Ticks are members of this class of animals⸴ some of which use pedipalps to assist in chewing. Some members of this non-insect class use spinnerets to make silk. Name this class of arthropods which include scorpions and spiders. - ttddarachnids or arachnida [do not prompt on or accept ˈˈspider(s)ˈˈ or ˈˈtarantula(s)ˈˈ or ˈˈarthropod(s)ˈˈ]
Answer the following about biological pathways. The citric acid cycle works by oxidizing this substance. The two-carbon functional group that gives this substance its name is attached to oxalo·acetate to form citrate. - ttddacetyl-CoA (uh-SEE-tuhl KOH-ay) or acetyl co·enzyme A
Answer the following about biological pathways. During gly·colysis⸴ two of these electron carriers are made. After being treated by its namesake de·hydrogenase⸴ it is oxidized to create a proton gradient in oxidative phos·phorylation. - ttddNAD (ˈˈN-A-Dˈˈ) [or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide or NAD+ or NADH; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈNADPˈˈ or ˈˈNADP+ˈˈ or ˈˈNADPHˈˈ or ˈˈnicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphateˈˈ]
Answer the following about biological pathways. Icicle plants were found to have this pathway induced in them when the salt content of their diet was increased. Both primary and final carboxylation take place in the meso·phyll cells in plants that use this pathway⸴ in which malic acid is stored in a vacuole (VAK-yoo-ohl) until stomata open. This pathway⸴ which is named for an (*) acid and Crassula family plants⸴ is used by pineapples to reduce the effects of photo·respiration. Name this pathway that some plants use at night to prevent evapo·transpiration. - ttddCAM (kam) pathway or CAM photosynthesis [accept Crassulacean acid metabolism before (*)]
Answer the following about organisms that are neither animals nor plants. The mycelium (MY-ˈˈsellˈˈ-ee-um) of a fungus is formed of these tiny structures⸴ which constitute most of the growth of fungi. - ttddhyphae (HYE-fee) or hypha
Answer the following about organisms that are neither animals nor plants. Fungi⸴ like animals but unlike plants⸴ are this kind of organism⸴ which does not obtain its energy directly from carbon or the Sun. The name of this kind of organism comes from the Greek for ˈˈdifferentˈˈ and ˈˈnutrition.ˈˈ - ttddhetero·trophs
Answer the following about organisms that are neither animals nor plants. Fuco·xanthin (FOO-koh-zan-thin) is found in some of these non-hetero·dont (het-UR-oh-dahnt) organisms⸴ which use a structure called a pneumato·cyst (ˈˈnew-MATˈˈ-oh-sihst)⸴ or ˈˈflotation bladder⸴ˈˈ to stay afloat. One type of these organisms creates floridean starch⸴ which notably lacks amylose. Biology labs often use agar (AH-ger)⸴ which is a material derived from these organisms. Toothpaste contains carrageenan (CAR-uh-gee-nihn)⸴ which is a gel derived from these organisms. The ˈˈblue-greenˈˈ type of these are actually bacteria. Name these organisms exemplified by kelp and seaweed. - ttddalgae [accept brown algae; prompt on ˈˈprotist(s)ˈˈ or ˈˈseaweedˈˈ]
Name these very small organisms. Wendell Stanley⸴ who won the 1946 Nobel Prize in Chemistry⸴ showed that this virus is still infectious even if it is crystallized. This virus was the first one ever to be isolated. - ttddtobacco mosaic virus [or TMV]
Name these very small organisms. Avocado sun·blotch disease is caused by these pathogens⸴ which are small pieces of single-stranded RNA that do not contain a protein coat. - ttddviroids
Name these very small organisms. Wolfram Zillig suggested the name of one phylum of these organisms called eocytes⸴ some of which survive by using sulfur as an energy source. Ferro·plasma is one genus of these organisms found in acid mines⸴ while another⸴ pyro·coccus⸴ lives in geyser-like locations. Pseudo·peptido·glycan comprises the cell wall of these organisms⸴ some of which use methane as a primary energy source. This group of organisms includes thermo-acido·philes⸴ halo·philes⸴ and acido·philes. Give this group of pro·karyotic organisms that are named because of their extreme age. - ttddArchaea (ar-KEE-uh) or archaeans [accept Archaebacteria; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈbacteriaˈˈ]
Answer the following questions about cellular reproduction. Male reproductive cells are produced during this process⸴ whose female counterpart is oogenesis (OH-uh- ˈˈgenesisˈˈ). It occurs in the testes in humans. - ttddspermatogenesis (ˈˈSPERMˈˈ-ah-toh-ˈˈgenesisˈˈ)
Answer the following questions about cellular reproduction. Oogenesis ends with the production of four daughter cells. One of them is an egg⸴ while the other three are this structure which usually undergoes apoptosis (AY-pop-toh-sis). - ttddpolar bodies or polar body or polar cells
Answer the following questions about cellular reproduction. During this phase of mitosis⸴ Flemming bodies assist in a process sometimes called abscission (ab-SIHZH-ˈˈinnˈˈ). During this phase⸴ tightly packed chromosomes begin to uncoil⸴ and in plant cells⸴ a structure called the cell plate forms. Near the end of this phase⸴ the nuclear envelope of a cell reappears. The mitotic spindle forms the cleavage furrow⸴ a small indentation⸴ during this phase. Cyto·kinesis (ˈˈsighˈˈ-toh-kih-NEE-sis) begins during⸴ but finishes after⸴ this phase is complete. Name this final phase of mitosis. - ttddtelophase
Name these bio·molecules. This type of steroid⸴ which provides structure to the cell membrane⸴ was first isolated from gallstones in a liquid crystal phase. - ttddcholesterol
Name these bio·molecules. The first metabolic cycle that was discovered produces this molecule from ornithine. The synthesis of this molecule disproved the theory of vitalism. - ttddurea [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈurineˈˈ]
Name these bio·molecules. Ricin (ˈˈRYE-sinˈˈ) a-chains contain an N-glyco·sylase that disrupts the structure of this bio·molecule. This molecule is held to be self-replicating in a widely accepted ˈˈworldˈˈ hypothesis⸴ whose name was coined by Walter Gilbert. ˈˈMicroˈˈ pieces of this molecule are responsible for gene silencing. The term ˈˈcloverleaf structureˈˈ is used to refer to the form of one type of this molecule. In this kind of molecule⸴ uracil replaces the thiamine. Name this genetic material which is single stranded⸴ unlike DNA. - ttddRNA [accept rRNA or ribomsal RNA or tRNA or transfer RNA or mRNA or messenger RNA or microRNA; accept RNA world hypothesis; accept any answers which mention ribonucleic acid in place of RNA; prompt on ˈˈnucleic acidˈˈ]
Answer the following about specialized parts of some organisms. This structure's ostium is surrounded by the fimbria⸴ which has cilia that move an ovum into these structures. The name of these structures was derived from that of a 16th century scientist. - ttddFallopian tubes [or salpinx or salpinges]
Answer the following about specialized parts of some organisms. At the base of cilia are these proteins⸴ which are sometimes called kineto·somes. These structures are designed to serve as the growth site of axoneme micro·tubules. - ttddbasal body or basal bodies [accept basal granules or blepharoblasts]
Answer the following about specialized parts of some organisms. These structures come together and form a mesh for digesting food in some organisms that use the ˈˈreticuloseˈˈ types of them. Cerco·zoans and forams use these structures⸴ which are formed and unformed through actin polymerization to create micro·filaments. Radio·larians use a specialized type of this structure called an axopodia that forms a helical shape. Their name comes from the Greek for ˈˈfake-feet.ˈˈ Name these projections used by some amoeba for locomotion. - ttddpseudopods [or pseudopodia or pseudopodium]
Answer the following about specialized cells. Serum albumin is manufactured in these cells⸴ which are the only cells in the human body which also synthesize bile salts. These cells are formally called hepato·cytes. - ttddliver cells
Answer the following about specialized cells. These cells⸴ which filter blood⸴ usually have a glomerulus (gloh-MARE-yoo-luss) surrounded by a Bowman's capsule. - ttddnephrons
Answer the following about specialized cells. Cells in the piriform cortex are known to assist with this ability⸴ which is aided by tufted cells that reside in a non-kidney structure called the glomerulus (gloh-MARE-yoo-luss). Mitral (MYE-trul) cells are found in the bulb named for this ability⸴ which is supported by the ethmoid bone. The absence of this ability is known as anosmia (uh-NAHZ-me- uh). The first cranial nerve is named for this sense⸴ which occurs when certain molecules bind to (*) olfactory receptors. Name this sense that involves odorants passing through the nose. - ttddsmell [accept olfaction or olfactory sense before (*)]
Answer the following about moths and butterflies. Moths often use this technique⸴ which comes in ˈˈactiveˈˈ and ˈˈmotionˈˈ types⸴ to evade predators. - ttddcamouflage [accept active camouflage or motion camouflage]
Answer the following about moths and butterflies. Viceroy butterflies are able to evade predators by utilizing the ˈˈBatesianˈˈ (BATES-ee-un) form of this phenomenon. - ttddmimicry [accept Batesian mimicry]
Answer the following about moths and butterflies. The hetero·zygote disadvantage often arises as a result of this selection mechanism⸴ which is exemplified by the peppered moth⸴ since the white and black moths are favored due to their abilities to hide from predators. This type of selection creates a bi·modal distribution⸴ unlike stabilizing or directional selection. Name this type of (*) natural selection in which the mean is selected against and the extremes are characterized by higher fitness. - ttdddisruptive selection or diversifying selection [prompt on ˈˈnatural selectionˈˈ before (*)]
Give the following having to do with biomes or ecosystems. The abyssal zone of the ocean is often home to this kind of ecosystem⸴ in which mollusks⸴ hagfish⸴ and other organisms use nutrients from blubber supplied by a namesake animal as an energy source. - ttddwhale fall [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈwhaleˈˈ]
Give the following having to do with biomes or ecosystems. Organic material generated from zoo·plankton and the remains of kelp and other residents of the photic zone create this kind of ecosystem⸴ in which organisms at the bottom of the ocean survive by consuming organic matter that continuously falls from above. - ttddmarine snow
Give the following having to do with biomes or ecosystems. This type of ecosystem is home to the tree species heritiera fomes⸴ which is also known as the sunder tree. Inhabitants of this ecosystem make use of suberin (SOO-bur-in) to prevent a certain substance from infiltrating their roots. The namesake of this biome reproduces by vivipary (vih-VIH-puh-ree). Halo·phytes are found in these biomes⸴ whose name derives from the common name of the plant genus Rhizophora. This biome is found exclusively in the inter·tidal zones of oceans⸴ including a region known as the Sundarbans (SOON-dur-buns). Forests of namesake trees grow in salty water in what kind of biome which can be found along the coast of India and Bangladesh? - ttddmangrove forest [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈforestˈˈ]
Answer the following about allergies: Type I (ˈˈoneˈˈ) hyper·sensitivity to allergies often results in this symptom due to the presence of eicosanoids (ˈˈeyeˈˈ-KAW-suh-noydz). Neutro·phils are often used to combat this symptom. - ttddinflammation [accept word forms]
Answer the following about allergies: During a Type I (ˈˈoneˈˈ) hyper·sentitivity response to allergies⸴ IgE (ˈˈI-G-Eˈˈ)⸴ an example of one of these proteins⸴ is often released. - ttddantibodies or antibody [prompt on ˈˈimmunoglobulin(s)ˈˈ]
Answer the following about allergies: FITkit (ˈˈFIT-kitˈˈ) is often used to test for an allergy to this substance. Children with spina bifida will have an increased risk of the allergy associated with substance⸴ which often manifests itself as an allergy to mango⸴ soy⸴ and strawberries. The flowering shrub guayule (gwah-YOO-lee) is a source of this material⸴ which is often used as an alternative to poly·urethane. This substance most often comes from trees in the form of a whitish fluid. Name this material that makes people allergic to a certain type of rubber glove. - ttddlatex [prompt on ˈˈrubberˈˈ]
Answer the following about organ systems. In the circulatory system⸴ these are the only arteries that do not contain oxygenated blood. - ttddpulmonary arteries
Answer the following about organ systems. There are ˈˈsuperiorˈˈ and ˈˈinferiorˈˈ examples of these veins that carry blood from the rest of the body directly into the heart. - ttddvena cava [accept venae cavae]
Answer the following about organ systems. The ciliary muscle in the iris is attached to this system by Edinger-Westphal nuclei. The acronym SLUDD (slud) is used to describe the functions of this system⸴ since it controls lachrymation and salivation. This component of the enteric system is responsible for relaxing sphincter muscles⸴ slowing the heart rate⸴ and other involuntary responses. This system is responsible for the ˈˈrest-and-digestˈˈ aspect of the nervous system. Name this system that augments the similarly-named sympathetic nervous system. - ttddparasympathetic nervous system [prompt on ˈˈnervous systemˈˈ; do not prompt on or accept ˈˈsympathetic nervous systemˈˈ]
Name these organisms important to the history of biology. The first virus to be discovered was one that infects this plant. This model organism is often used in plant virology studies and has high levels of regeneration⸴ making it a great plant for tissue culture. - ttddtobacco [or Nicotiana]
Name these organisms important to the history of biology. This weed is the most widely-used model plant organism because of its short lifespan and relatively small genome. - ttddArabidopsis thaliana
Name these organisms important to the history of biology. In 2014⸴ the ICE-First-Aging experiment studied aging in this organism in space flight conditions. In 2012⸴ this model organism's connectome was fully mapped⸴ and it currently remains the only organism in which that has been accomplished. Sydney Brenner pioneered the use of this organism. This organism goes through four larval stages called L1 to L4⸴ but it can respond to stresses by entering a dauer (DOW-err) stage. Fire and Mello studied RNA interference in this animal. Mature hermaphrodites of it have 959 somatic cells⸴ and it was the first multicellular organism to have its genome sequenced. Name this model organism that is a nematode. - ttddCaenorhabditis elegans [prompt on ˈˈNematodaˈˈ or ˈˈnematodesˈˈ]
Name these things found in cells. This organelle⸴ which is found in pairs⸴ contains nine triplets of microtubules and makes up the centrosome⸴ which organizes spindles during mitosis. - ttddcentrioles
Name these things found in cells. Some bacteria⸴ such as those of genus Bacillus⸴ have this structure⸴ with which they can enter a dormant state if nutrients are lacking. These structures are notoriously difficult to eradicate. - ttddendospores
Name these things found in cells. In a complex involving one type of this organelle⸴ networks of tubules and vesicles called spongiomes empty material into it. Antho·cyanins and other flower pigments are found within this organelle. Lysosomes can merge with the food type of these organelles to form a structure in which digestion occurs. A variety of this organelle in protists regulates turgor pressure by expelling water out of the cell; that variety is called the contractile type of this organelle. In plants⸴ a membrane called the tonoplast surrounds this structure. The central type is often the largest body in plant cells. Name these organelles which are usually used as the cell's storage sites. - ttddvacuoles [accept contractile vacuoles or food vacuoles]
Answer the following about inflammation. Inflammation caused by the immune response can cause this effect⸴ in which blood vessels widen. - ttddvasodilation or vasodilatation [accept word forms]
Answer the following about inflammation. The swelling that accompanies inflammation is known by this term. - ttddedema
Answer the following about inflammation. Bright's disease is an older name for inflammation of this organ. Failure of the lungs and this organ can occur when it is attacked by antibodies in Goodpasture syndrome. The Bosniak classification scheme is used for cysts within this organ. The functionality of this organ can be measured through a creatinine test. A protein synthesized by JG cells in this organ acts with angio·tensin to regulate blood pressure. This organ produces renin⸴ and inflammation of this organ often occurs in the glomerulus. In cases of this organ's failure⸴ a patient can be hooked up to a dialysis machine. Name this organ⸴ whose functional units are called nephrons. - ttddkidneys
Answer some questions about invasive species. These mollusks are a significant problem in the eastern United States⸴ including in the Great Lakes. They are especially problematic due to their ability to attach to man-made objects and clog pipes. - ttddzebra mussels [or Dreissena polymorpha; prompt on ˈˈmusselsˈˈ]
Answer some questions about invasive species. This Asian plant was intentionally introduced to the United States as a way of controlling soil erosion⸴ but it has since spread over the South⸴ outcompeting other plants by growing over them. - ttddkudzu [or Pueraria lobata]
Answer some questions about invasive species. In this country⸴ the myxoma virus was used to successfully control the spread of invasive rabbits. Many members of an animal species native to this country are infected with a facial tumor disease that can spread between individuals. A failed attempt to control cane beetle populations in this country introduced the cane toad⸴ which has since then become a problematic invasive species here. One animal endemic to this country uses electroreceptors on its body to navigate underwater; that animal is an egg-laying mammal that has a duck-like bill. Name this country that is home to the platypus and marsupials such as Tasmanian devils and kangaroos. - ttddCommonwealth of Australia
Name these scientists. This woman took the photograph from which Watson and Crick discovered the double helix structure of DNA. - ttddRosalind Elsie Franklin
Name these scientists. This man devised binomial nomenclature as the method for naming species and established modern taxonomy with his book Systema Naturae. - ttddCarolus Linnaeus or Carl Linnaeus [or Carl von Linne or Carolus a Linne]
Name these scientists. This scientist discovered a defective chromosomal behavior called the breakage-fusion-bridge cycle. This scientist built on Rollins Emerson's work in discovering that mutations in the Ds (ˈˈDˈˈ-ˈˈSˈˈ) region of chromosome 9 caused streaks of brown and purple in a certain organism; that work led to the formulation of the Ac/Ds (ˈˈAˈˈ-ˈˈCˈˈ-ˈˈDˈˈ- ˈˈSˈˈ) system. Independently of Herman Muller⸴ this scientist discovered telomeres. She used early cyto·genetics to find the first evidence that genetic variability in offspring came from crossing over. This scientist heavily studied maize plants⸴ in which she made the first discovery of mobile genetic elements. Name this scientist who won the 1983 Nobel Prize in Medicine for her discovery of the ˈˈjumping genesˈˈ named transposons. - ttddBarbara McClintock
Answer the following about plants. In leaves⸴ these cells surround the stomata and regulate the plant's gas exchange by changing their size. - ttddguard cells
Answer the following about plants. Plant growth occurs from these undifferentiated cells in a plant. The apical type is found at the tips of roots and shoots. - ttddmeristem or meristematic cells [do not prompt on ˈˈstemˈˈ]
Answer the following about plants. A type of cell found in this tissue has few organelles⸴ including the lack of a nucleus⸴ but does have smooth endoplasmic reticulum along the plasma membrane. Cells in this tissue die following girdling. The secondary type of this tissue originates from the vascular cambium. Movement in this tissue can be explained by the pressure flow hypothesis. This tissue contains companion cells⸴ which are found next to and assist sieve tube elements. Unlike a similar type of tissue⸴ it contains living cells and can transport molecules both up and down the stem. Name this plant tissue that transports nutrients⸴ such as sugars⸴ and is often contrasted with xylem. - ttddphloem
Answer the following about metabolic pathways. In photosynthesis⸴ this molecule is reduced in the light-dependent reactions and later acts as a reducing agent in the last step of the Calvin cycle to produce G3P. - ttddNADPH or NADP+ [or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate; do not accept or prompt on partial answers]
Answer the following about metabolic pathways. In the first step of glycolysis⸴ hexokinase adds this functionality to a glucose molecule. - ttddphosphate group [or PO4 3- (ˈˈPˈˈ-ˈˈOˈˈ-ˈˈfourˈˈ ˈˈthree minusˈˈ)]
Answer the following about metabolic pathways. This molecule is produced from ATP citrate lyase⸴ in which it is converted from citrate during fatty acid synthesis. Different types of thiolases can either produce this molecule or use it as a substrate. In each iteration of beta oxidation⸴ one of these molecules is produced off a fatty acid. Two of these molecules combine with each other in the first step of the mevalonate pathway to synthesize cholesterol. To provide energy for the heart⸴ this molecule is converted into ketone bodies. It combines with oxalo·acetate to form citrate in another metabolic pathway. Name this molecule that enters the Krebs cycle after being converted from pyruvate. - ttddacetyl coA or acetyl coenzyme A [do not prompt on partial answer]
Name these types of tissue found within the human body. This type of tissue is made up of cells that come in varieties such as simple squamous and stratified columnar. - ttddepithelial tissue [or epithelium]
Name these types of tissue found within the human body. Cells in this connective tissue can synthesize hormones such as leptin. This tissue is split between white and brown types. - ttddadipose tissue [or fatty tissue]
Name these types of tissue found within the human body. Archibald Hill created a model of a mechanism found in this tissue. A type of this tissue undergoes the slow- wave potential. Most types of cells in this tissue follow the ˈˈall-or-noneˈˈ law. In a process that occurs in this tissue⸴ the Z lines are brought closer to each other. A type of this tissue is structured in branches and has its cells connected through intercalated discs. Troponin is involved in a mechanism in this tissue that begins when acetyl·choline causes depolarization in this tissue's cells. Cells in this tissue can receive signals from neurons that cause them to move⸴ and they come in smooth⸴ cardiac⸴ and skeletal types. Myocytes are found in what tissue⸴ one type of which is connected to bones by tendons? - ttddmuscle tissue [accept skeletal muscle or cardiac muscle or smooth muscle]
Answer the following about protein structure and amino acids. Alpha helices and beta sheets are classified as what type of protein structure⸴ which is determined by hydrogen bonding? - ttddsecondary structure
Answer the following about protein structure and amino acids. This metal cat·ion is found in a protein structural motif that binds to DNA and contains two cysteines and two histidines. That motif is known as this metal's ˈˈfingers.ˈˈ - ttddzinc [accept zinc fingers]
Answer the following about protein structure and amino acids. T⸴ P⸴ L⸴ and H proteins are involved in a cleavage system of this amino acid that⸴ when defective⸴ causes a type of encephalopathy named after it. When binding to namesake receptors⸴ this amino acid causes an influx of chloride ions to enter the neuron⸴ an action which is blocked by strych·nine. This amino acid is the only one for which D and L notation does not apply. With serine⸴ this amino acid is a co-agonist of a type of glutamate receptor called NMDA receptors. Along with GABA (gah-buh)⸴ it is the most important inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. It is the most common amino acid found in collagen. Name this achiral amino acid⸴ whose side chain is simply a hydrogen. - ttddglycine [prompt on ˈˈglyˈˈ or ˈˈGˈˈ]
Name some chemicals found throughout the human body. This protein is the main component of blood plasma. The bovine type is often used as a standard for calculating protein concentrations. - ttddserum albumin
Name some chemicals found throughout the human body. This neurotransmitter is mostly secreted by entero·chromaffin cells. SSRIs are antidepressant drugs that inhibit its reuptake. - ttddserotonin [or 5-hydroxytryptamine; or 5-HT]
Name some chemicals found throughout the human body. The Reichstein process is an industrial method of synthesizing this molecule from glucose. It is a cofactor for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase⸴ which synthesizes catecholamines. Humans are one of few animals who lack gulono·lactone oxidase⸴ which naturally synthesizes this molecule. This molecule is a necessary cofactor for enzymes involved in synthesizing collagen. A therapy named after this molecule and lysine is used to treat cardiovascular disease and is named after Linus Pauling⸴ who advocated taking high doses of it. A deficiency of this vitamin⸴ which is also called (*) ascorbic acid⸴ causes scurvy. Name this vitamin often found in citrus fruits. - ttddvitamin C [accept L-ascorbic acid or L-ascorbate before (*)]
Name some diseases of the central nervous system. This disease causes the death of motor neurons⸴ resulting in muscle weakness. In most cases⸴ the cause of it is still unknown. - ttddamyotrophic lateral sclerosis [or ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease]
Name some diseases of the central nervous system. The McDonald criteria are used to diagnose this disease⸴ in which inflammation in the central nervous system occurs. - ttddmultiple sclerosis [or MS or disseminated sclerosis or encephalomyelitis disseminata]
Name some diseases of the central nervous system. The drug MPTP was found to directly cause this disease⸴ while paraquat is another toxin commonly used to model it. It's not Alzheimer's disease⸴ but Braak staging can be used to measure its pathology. Although most cases of this disease are not inherited⸴ different parts of the world have different mutations on the LRRK2 gene that are associated with this disease. In this disease⸴ accumulations of alpha-synuclein called Lewy bodies build up. This disease occurs with a lack of dopamine production⸴ since the activity of the cells in the substantia nigra is decreased. L-dopa is used to treat this disease. Name this neurodegenerative disease whose symptoms often include shaking hands and rigid⸴ slow movement. - ttddParkinson's disease [or idiopathic parkinsonism or primary parkinsonism]
Life Science: After passing through the larynx, air enters what tube that connects it with the bronchii? - ttddTrachea
Life Science: When swallowing food, the food passes from the pharynx to the stomach through what muscular tube? - ttddEsophagus
Life Science: To ensure that solid and liquid foods do not enter the trachea, what small flap of cartilage covers the larynx during eating and drinking? - ttddEpiglottis
Life Science: Identify the following related to arthropods. The term ''pod'' part of ''arthropod'' literally means this appendage. - ttddFeet [or Foot]
Life Science: Identify the following related to arthropods. Arthropods are divided into classes such as this group including shrimp, lobster, and crayfish. - ttddCrustaceans
Life Science: Identify the following related to arthropods. Similar to the cell walls of fungi, this substance forms the exoskeleton of most arthropods. - ttddChitin
Life Science: Identify these parts of a flower. What part of a flower captures pollen during pollination? - ttddStigma
Life Science: Identify these parts of a flower. What part of a flower contains the ovary and is topped by the Stigma? - ttddPistil
Life Science: Identify these parts of a flower. What part of a flower serves to attract pollinators and is usually brightly colored? - ttddPetal
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular respiration. The net gain of this stage is two NADH and two ATP. Name this anaerobic process that breaks down glucose also known as the Embden-Meyerhof pathway. - ttddGlycolysis
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular respiration. What alternative pathway to cellular respiration creates ethanol and lactic acid instead of oxidizing pyruvates into carbon dioxide? - ttddFermentation
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular respiration. Four protons move across the inner membrane of the mitochondria in this process that powers the synthesis of ATP. Name this final step of oxidative process that produces 32 ATP and moves negatively charged particles from one complex to another. - ttddElectron Transport Chain [accept ETC]
Life Science: Identify these phases of mitosis. What phase is the longest part of the cell cycle? It is divided in G1, S, and G2 phases. - ttddInterphase
Life Science: Identify these phases of mitosis. Chromosomes, attached with spindle fibers, align in the middle of the cell during what phase of mitosis? - ttddMetaphase
Life Science: Identify these phases of mitosis. Nuclear membrane reforms around the new chromosomes during this phase and a cleavage furrow begins to form, which pinches the cell membrane. Identify this stage of mitosis before cytokinesis. - ttddTelophase
Life Science: Name these cell organelles. Proteins bound for this organelle are tagged with mannose-6-phosphate. What acidic organelles break down macromolecules and cellular waste? - ttddLysosomes
Life Science: Name these cell organelles. This organelle is responsible for tagging proteins with mannose-6-phosphate. Stacked cisternae in what organelle package proteins and lipids? - ttddGolgi Body [accept ''complex'' or ''apparatus''] as equivalents for body.]
Life Science: Name these cell organelles. Found in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes, they use processes of transcription and translation to produce polypeptides. What organelles are the sites of protein synthesis? - ttddRibosomes
Life Science: Identify these pioneers in medical science. This scientist developed his vaccine after he noticed a low incidence of a dangerous disease in milkmaids. What scientist used cowpox to prevent smallpox, and in the process coined the term vaccine? - ttddEdward Jenner
Life Science: Identify these pioneers in medical science. Joseph Meister was cured by this polymath, who invented the Rabies vaccine. What scientist is the namesake of a process to heat food and get rid of pathogens? - ttddLouis Pasteur
Life Science: Identify these pioneers in medical science. His research into London's water supply over several years led to a pump handle being removed, possibly preventing another large outbreak of cholera. What Soho resident is considered the father of modern epidemiology for his discoveries in the Broad Street outbreak? - ttddJohn Snow
Life Science: Give the genera of these illnesses. This genus was a major cause of death when explorers and Conquistadors brought it with them to the New World. Diseases such as chickenpox and smallpox are caused by what genus? - ttddVariola
Life Science: Give the genera of these illnesses. The main disease stemming from this genus causes debilitating symptoms, including a characteristic rice-water stool. What is cholera's scientific name, coined by Filippo Pacini for the bacterium's movement patterns? - ttddVibrio
Life Science: Give the genera of these illnesses. A deadly illness caused by this genus, first discovered by Robert Koch, includes symptoms like chest pains or coughing up blood. Historically called Consumption, what genus contains illnesses such as tuberculosis? - ttddMycobacterium (Do not prompt on or accept ''tuberculosis'')
Life Science: Identify these plant hormones. What hormone is responsible for shutting down the cell during periods of low water or nutrient availability? - ttddAbscisic Acid
Life Science: Identify these plant hormones. Silver salts senescence by inhibiting it, and its triple response leads to a loss of gravitropism. What is this hormone that is responsible for fruit ripening? - ttddEthylene
Life Science: Identify these plant hormones. Eiichi Kurosawa studied bakanae in rice and was the first to discover one of these compounds, which caused foolish seedling disease. What class of plant hormones is responsible for stem elongation? - ttddGibberellins
Life Science: Identify the following structures of the body. This structure is divided into three sections called the lumbar, cervical, and thoracic. Name this structure made up of thirty-three vertebrae. - ttddSpine or [Vertebral column or backbone]
Life Science: Identify the following structures of the body. This structure is found in the knee along with the meniscus and medial collateral ligament, and when torn can cause debilitating sports injuries. - ttddAnterior Cruciate Ligament
Life Science: Identify the following structures of the body. This structure is held in place by the hyoid bone and has sense receptors called papillae on it. Name this mobile structure in the mouth. - ttddTongue
Life Science: What cellular organelle is known as the ''powerhouse of the cell'' due to its production of ATP? - ttddMitochondria or Mitochondrion
Life Science: What cellular organelle is known as the ''control center of the cell'' due to all cellular activity being controlled from within? - ttddNucleus
Life Science: What cellular organelle is called ''rough'' when it has ribosomes on its surface and ''smooth'' when it does not? - ttddEndoplasmic Reticulum (prompt on ''ER'')
Life Science: What law from genetics states that if p is the frequency of the dominant allele and q is the frequency of the recessive allele, the genotype frequencies can be represented as p2 + 2pq + q2 = 1 (p squared plus two pq plus q squared equals one)? - ttddHardy-Weinberg equilibrium
Life Science: This factor is one reason why the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium doesn't work. Identify this term used to describe the change in the frequency of a gene allele due to random sampling. - ttddGenetic Drift
Life Science: First described by Ernst Mayr, examples of it can be found in various Pacific islands. What effect that is usually preceded by a bottleneck event causes rare alleles to become over-represented in a population? - ttddFounder Effect
Life Science: What term, from the Greek for ''living together'' describes the close interaction between two species? - ttddSymbiosis
Life Science: In what form of symbiosis do both species benefit from the relationship? - ttddMutualism
Life Science: In what form of symbiosis does one organism benefit, while the other is neither helped nor harmed? - ttddCommensalism
Life Science: Name some marine mammals. What black and white marine mammals are apex predators, members of the oceanic dolphin family, and can be found at SeaWorld? - ttddOrca Whales or Killer whales or Blackfish [prompt on ''whale(s)'']
Life Science: Name some marine mammals. What marine mammals use echo location, travel in pods, and include a bottlenose variety? - ttddDolphins
Life Science: Name some marine mammals. These marine mammals have the densest fur coat in the animal kingdom and are natives of the North Pacific Ocean. They are considered a keystone species in their environment and feed off sea urchins and other shellfish. Name these marine mammals that belong to the weasel family. - ttddSea otters
Life Science: Identify the following organelles. This organelle synthesizes ATP and is considered the ''power house'' of the cell. - ttddMitochondria
Life Science: Identify the following organelles. This organelle is the site of photosynthesis and contains stacks of thylakoids. - ttddChloroplast
Life Science: Identify the following organelles. Toss-Up: This organelle uses RAN proteins to transports materials through its pores, and it is continuous with the endoplasmic reticulum. Identify this organelle that contains the cell's genetic material and is nicknamed the ''control center'' of the cell. - ttddNucleus
Life Science: Name these scientists. This scientist studied tortoises and finches to create his theory of natural selection. - ttddCharles Darwin
Life Science: Name these scientists. This scientist studied pea plants to help formulate his ideas on heredity. - ttddGregor Mendel
Life Science: Name these scientists. Toss-Up: These two scientists carried out their research at Cambridge University. With the help of fellow scientists Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, name these two scientists that formulated the idea that DNA has a double helical structure. - ttddJames Watson and Francis Crick
Life Science: Answer these questions about specialized cells. What ''nerve cells'' transmit signals in the nervous system? - ttddNeurons
Life Science: Answer these questions about specialized cells. Myelin often covers what tail-like structure that transmits signals from the soma of a neuron? - ttddAxons
Life Science: Answer these questions about specialized cells. The principal glial cells of a neuron are what ''cells'' that produce the myelin sheath and are named for a German physiologist? - ttddSchwann Cells
Life Science: Answer these questions about Rosalind Franklin. Franklin is best known for preparing x-ray crystallography slides for the discovery of DNA by what two scientists? - ttddJames Watson AND Francis Crick
Life Science: Answer these questions about Rosalind Franklin. Franklin later worked on isolating a namesake virus that caused ''mosaic'' patterns on what plant? - ttddTobacco
Life Science: Answer these questions about Rosalind Franklin. Franklin died in 1958 while researching the causative agent of what virus, the vaccine for which was developed by Salk and Sabin? - ttddPolio
Life Science: Name these diseases. This disease is caused by an extra twenty-first chromosome and symptoms include mental retardation, slanted eyes, and short stature. - ttddDown's Syndrome
Life Science: Name these diseases. This disease is characterized by lack of interest in activities, sleeping for excessive periods of time, thoughts of suicide, and persistent feelings or sadness or ''emptiness.'' - ttddDepression
Life Science: Name these diseases. The name of this disease was coined by Sir William Gull in 1873. It began with descriptions of religious fasting from the Hellenistic era. The name of this disease literally means ''neurotic loss of appetite.'' Name this disease whose suffers starve themselves to lose weight. - ttddAnorexia nervosa
Life Science: Name these molecules. What neurotransmitter is deficient in Parkinson's patients and overproduced in Schizophrenic patients? - ttddDopamine
Life Science: Name these molecules. Responsible for mood and appetite, this neurotransmitter's levels are lowered in depression and other anxiety disorders. - ttddSerotonin
Life Science: Name these molecules. Polycystic Ovary System brings about resistance to this hormone. This hormone is released when IP3 cells bind to the endoplasmic reticulum, up regulating GLUT4 receptors. It was discovered by Banting and sequenced by Sanger. Name this hormone produced by beta cells in the pancreas. - ttddInsulin
Life Science: Answer the following about ecology. This is the term for a species that plays a critical role in the maintaining of its community; examples of this type of species include the sea otter and jaguar. - ttddKeystone species
Life Science: Answer the following about ecology. This term is used to describe an organism's specific role in its community. - ttddNiche
Life Science: Answer the following about ecology. Toss-Up: An example of these has extremely low amounts of rainfall and is coupled with minimal plant and animal life. Give this term that is defined as contiguous areas with similar climate conditions such as the tundra, rainforest, and desert; they are also known as ecosystems. - ttddBiome [prompt on "ecosystems" before mentioned]
Life Science: Name the following experiments. This experiment used bacteriophages to prove that DNA is the genetic material, not proteins. - ttddHersey-Chase experiment or Chase-Hersey experiment
Life Science: Name the following experiments. This experiment simulated the conditions that were thought to have existed during the early earth period, and it created amino acids. - ttddMiller-Urey experiment or Urey-Miller experiment
Life Science: Name the following experiments. Toss-Up: A year before, along with Vinograd, these experimenters found a way to use cesium chloride to demonstrate a density gradient during centrifugation. It measured the radioactive levels of nitrogen-15 in E.coli after raising several generations of that organism. Name this doubly-eponymous experiment that discovered that DNA is semiconservative in nature. - ttddMeselson-Stahl experiment
Life Science: Identify these STIs. This STI is also known as the "clap" because it was once treated by clapping a certain part of a man's anatomy between two boards. - ttddChlamydia
Life Science: Identify these STIs. This STI causes ulcers known as chancres and was nicknamed the "magic bullet" by Paul Ehrlich. - ttddSyphilis
Life Science: Identify these STIs. Toss-Up: Harald zur Hausen won the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 2008 for his work on this pathogen. This disease can be diagnosed with a pap smear and vaccines for this STI include Gardasil and Cervarix. Name this STI that causes genital warts and cervical cancer. - ttddHuman Papillomavirus or HPV
Life Science: Answer these questions about DNA. What nucleic base in DNA binds to guanine? - ttddCytosine
Life Science: Answer these questions about DNA. What nucleic base in DNA binds to thymine? - ttddAdenine
Life Science: Answer these questions about DNA. Toss-Up: This compound was first discovered in 1900 in bovine thymus and spleens, wheat germ, and hydrolyzed herring sperm. It has two ketone groups and could be considered the methylated version of thymine. Name this nucleobase that binds with adenine in RNA. - ttddUracil
Life Science: Give what these prefixes/suffixes mean. For example if I say leuko-, you would say white. -ology - ttddthe study of [accept equivalents]
Life Science: Give what these prefixes/suffixes mean. For example if I say leuko-, you would say white. -ase - ttddEnzyme
Life Science: Give what these prefixes/suffixes mean. For example if I say leuko-, you would say white. Toss-Up: This prefix comes before vascular in the name of a body system. Aerobic exercise is also known as this type of exercise. Identify this prefix that means heart. - ttddcardio-
Life Science: Answer these questions about Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin conducted field work studying the beaks of what breed of birds? - ttddFinches
Life Science: Answer these questions about Charles Darwin. Charles Darwin studied finches and turtles on what islands? - ttddGalapagos Islands
Life Science: Answer these questions about Charles Darwin. Toss-Up: Alfred Wallace formulated this idea independently of the man most recognized for it. This theory is based off of an animal's "fitness" or in other words, ability to survive. Name this theory of evolution that Charles Darwin wrote about in On the Origin of Species. - ttddNatural selection [prompt on "evolution" until mentioned]
Life Science: Identify these branches of biology. What branch of biology is the study of animals? - ttddZoology
Life Science: Identify these branches of biology. What branch of biology is the study of animals and their relations with their environment and each other? - ttddEcology
Life Science: Identify these branches of biology. Toss-Up: Leonhart Fuchs was one of the "three German fathers of" this study. This study originated from herbalism. Coming from the Greek word "for pasture or grass," identify this branch of biology that studies plant life. - ttddBotany
Life Science: Name these organelles These organelles are measured in Svedberg units and can be free floating or bound. - ttddRibosomes
Life Science: Name these organelles These organelles are affected by I-cell disease and maintain an internal acidic environment. - ttddLysosomes
Life Science: Name these organelles Toss-Up: Diseases that affect this organelle are Rhizomelic Chondrodysplasia Punctata and Zellweger's Syndrome. This organelle is the site of beta oxidation for long chain fatty acids. Enzymes in it include urate oxidase and catalase. Identify this organelle, named for its breakdown of H2O2. - ttddPeroxisomes
Life Science: Identify the following parts of organelles. What flattened discs make up grana in chloroplasts? - ttddThylakoid
Life Science: Identify the following parts of organelles. What flattened stacks make up the Golgi apparatus? - ttddCisternae
Life Science: Identify the following parts of organelles. Toss-Up: FADH2 is oxidized into hydrogen ions here. This structure greatly increases the surface area of the organelle in which it resides, allowing the electron transport chain to occur. Name these folds of the inner membrane of the mitochondria. - ttddCristae
Life Science: Name these scientists. What scientist is famous for discovering biological cells by studying a piece of cork? - ttddRobert Hooke
Life Science: Name these scientists. What scientist contributed x-ray diffraction images to the finding of DNA's double helical structure but died before being able to receive the Nobel Prize? - ttddRosalind Franklin
Life Science: Name these scientists. Toss-Up: The works of this scientist includes Philsophia Botanica, Species Planatarum, and Systema Naturae. His namesake system was broken down into kingdom, class, order, genus, and species. Name this Swedish "father of modern taxonomy." - ttddCarl Linnaeus
Life Science: Identify the following parts of the brain. Which lobe of the brain deals with spatial sense, navigation, and the sense of touch? - ttddParietal Lobe
Life Science: Identify the following parts of the brain. Which lobe of the brain deals with language comprehension, memory storage, and emotions? - ttddTemporal Lobe
Life Science: Identify the following parts of the brain. Toss-Up: This part of the brain has two types of neurons, granule and Purkinje cells. Its function is to control motor skills, equilibrium, and posture. Name this part of the brain, located beneath the cerebral cortex, whose name means "little brain." - ttddCerebellum
Life Science: Identify these plants. China produces the world's largest quantity of what grain that is used to make bread and cereal? - ttddWheat
Life Science: Identify these plants. China is also the world's largest producer of what grain that provides almost one-fifth of all calories that are consumed by humans and was first domesticated in the Yangtze valley? - ttddRice
Life Science: Identify these plants. Toss-Up: This crop undergoes nixtamalization, an alkali wash treatment. It has been engineered to come in many different colors and the "flint" variant of it is used in making hominy. It is processed to make an alternative fuel known as ethanol. Name this crop that has a namesake high fructose syrup and can be referred to as maize. - ttddCorn [accept maize before mentioned]
Life Science: Identify the following things in from life science that all start with the letter H. This disease is an inflammation of the liver and comes in A, B, and C varieties - ttddHepatitis
Life Science: Identify the following things in from life science that all start with the letter H. This disease is characterized by an inability for blood to clot. - ttddHemophilia
Life Science: Identify the following things in from life science that all start with the letter H. Toss-Up: The 2pq part of the Hardy-Weinberg equation is used to represent the frequency of this type organism. People having this type of advantage are resistant to malaria in relation to sickle-cell anemia. Name this type of organism that has one dominant allele and one recessive allele. - ttddHeterozygote or Heterozygous
Life Science: Name these phylums. What phylum includes sponges? - ttddPorifera
Life Science: Name these phylums. This phylum includes vertebrates such as humans. - ttddChordata or Chordates
Life Science: Name these phylums. Toss-Up: ''Aristotle's lantern" is a term used to describe the large teeth of one species within this phylum. Members of this phylum have tube feet within their water vascular systems. Name this phylum whose name means "spiny skin" and includes starfish and sea urchins. - ttddEchinodermata or Echinoderms
Life Science: Identify the anatomical names for these bones. What is the anatomical name for the upper arm bone? - ttddHumerus
Life Science: Identify the anatomical names for these bones. Name one of the two bones that are located in the forearm. - ttddRadius OR Ulna
Life Science: Identify the anatomical names for these bones. Toss-Up: Points of attachment on this bone include the greater and lesser trochanters. It is reinforced by the linea aspera. Rather than the pelvis, a broken hip is caused by a break in this bone. Name this longest bone in the body that is also known as the "thigh" bone. - ttddFemur
Life Science: Name these branches of biology. What name is given to the scientific study of birds? - ttddOrnithology
Life Science: Name these branches of biology. What name is given to the scientific study of fish? - ttddIchthyology
Life Science: Name these branches of biology. Toss-Up: Famous scientists in this field of study include Edward Jenner and Louis Pasteur. One subject in this field of study is what causes AIDS. This branch's subject of study only replicate when inside a host organism. Name this study of viruses and virus-like agents. - ttddVirology
Life Science: Name these phylums. What phylum contains snails, clams, and squids? - ttddMollusca or Mollusks
Life Science: Name these phylums. What phylum contains insects and crustaceans? - ttddArthropoda or Arthropods
Life Science: Name these phylums. Toss-Up: Members of this phylum are tripoblastic, meaning they have three layers to them. They have scolex, and some members are composed of proglottids. Some members can become sporocysts. Name this phylum that contains all flatworms. - ttddPlatyhelminthes [prompt on "flatworms" before mentioned]
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. This disease causes serious damage to the immune system and is the final stage of HIV. - ttddAIDS or Autoimmune Deficiency Syndrome
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. This disorder is characterized by the swelling or narrowing of the lungs, causing a difficulty in breathing, with namesake attacks. - ttddAsthma
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. Toss-Up: These can be diagnosed by noticing an increase in CK-MB and troponin levels. A CABG or coronary artery bypass grafting can be used to treat this condition. A symptom of these includes chest pain. Name this medical condition that is caused by the death of heart tissue. - ttddHeart attack or Myocardial infarction
Life Science: Identify these systems of the human body. Within humans, the trachea, pharynx, larynx and lungs are all part of what organ system? - ttddRespiratory system
Life Science: Identify these systems of the human body. Within humans, the ovaries, uterus and oviduct are all part of what organ system? - ttddReproductive system
Life Science: Identify these systems of the human body. Within humans, the thymus, pineal gland and thyroid gland are all part of what organ system that secretes hormones directly into the circulatory system? - ttddEndocrine system
Life Science: Identify these bodily hormones. What pituitary hormone is absent in dwarfism and over produced in gigantism? - ttddHuman Growth Hormone or HGH
Life Science: Identify these bodily hormones. What hormone produced primarily by women controls endometrial proliferation and is declining in menopause? - ttddEstrogen
Life Science: Identify these bodily hormones. What hormone gives pigmentation to hair and skin and is absent in albinism? - ttddMelanin
Life Science: Answer these questions that have to do with numbers. How many chromosomes does a human diploid cell have? - ttdd46
Life Science: Answer these questions that have to do with numbers. How many new cells, including Barr bodies, does meiosis synthesize? - ttdd4
Life Science: Answer these questions that have to do with numbers. (Notes to reader: tell the students to be prepared to write down information and read the question slowly.) This number can be found by taking the number of teeth an adult human has, subtracting the number of domains, and then subtracting the number of levels of classification under the domain. Identify this number of standard amino acids. - ttdd22
Life Science: Identify the following animal phylums. Book lungs and a chitinous exoskeleton are characteristics of what phylum that includes crustaceans and arachnids? - ttddArthropoda or Arthropod(s)
Life Science: Identify the following animal phylums. Tubefeet and pentaradial symmetry are characteristics of what phylum that includes sea urchins and sand dollars? - ttddEchinodermata or Echinoderm(s)
Life Science: Identify the following animal phylums. A stinging structure known as the nematocyst is a characteristic of what phylum that contains corals and jellyfish? - ttddCnidaria or Cnidarian(s)
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. What molecule makes up the cells walls of plants? - ttddCellulose
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. What molecule makes up the cell walls of fungi and the exoskeletons of insects? - ttddChitin
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. Mutations in this protein causes Alport Syndrome. Identify this most abundant protein in the human body that makes up connective tissue. - ttddCollagen
Life Science: Identify these biological processes. What process has a net gain of two ATP and sees glucose broken down into two molecules of pyruvate? - ttddGlycolysis
Life Science: Identify these biological processes. Kary Mullis invented what process that is a method of amplify segments of DNA? - ttddPCR or Polymerase Chain Reaction
Life Science: Identify these biological processes. What cycle produces six molecules of G3P and uses the enzyme RuBisCo? - ttddCalvin Cycle
Life Science: Identify these cellular organelles. What organelles bind to the Shine-Dalgarno sequence and are the sites of protein synthesis? - ttddRibosome(s)
Life Science: Identify these cellular organelles. I-cell and Gaucher's disease affect what organelle that maintains an acidic environment and breaks down cellular waste? - ttddLysosome(s)
Life Science: Identify these cellular organelles. Zellweger's syndrome affects what organelle that utilizes catalase to break down its namesake molecule? - ttddPeroxisome(s)
Life Science: Answer these questions about the circulatory system. What veins receive oxygenated blood from the lungs and drain into the left atrium of the heart? - ttddPulmonary veins
Life Science: Answer these questions about the circulatory system. What veins that run through the neck bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava? - ttddJugular veins
Life Science: Answer these questions about the circulatory system. What arteries supply the head and the neck with oxygenated blood? - ttddCarotid arteries
Life Science: Name these branches of biology. What name is given to the study of fungi? - ttddMycology
Life Science: Name these branches of biology. What name is given to the study of diseases? - ttddPathology
Life Science: Name these branches of biology. Problems within this field of study come in inversion, deletion, and point varieties. The father of this branch of biology was an Austrian monk who studied pea plants; that man was Gregor Mendel. Name this branch of biology that studies heredity and genes. - ttddGenetics
Life Science: Identify the following diseases you may have been vaccinated against. Seeing a concerning increase in the number of cases due to less people receiving their TDaP, is what disease with its namesake symptom that is also known as pertussis? - ttddWhooping Cough
Life Science: Identify the following diseases you may have been vaccinated against. Two different vaccines invented by Salk and Sabin exist for what disorder that may have affected president Franklin Roosevelt? - ttddPolio
Life Science: Identify the following diseases you may have been vaccinated against. Causing a swelling of the parotid glands in the neck is what highly contagious disease usually vaccinated against at the same time as measles? - ttddMumps
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. Damage to the substantia nigra and deficiency of dopamine cause what disease that causes loss of motor skills and can be called "shaking palsy"? - ttddParkinson's Disease
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. The accumulation of tau protein and b-amyloid plaques is seen in what disease that causes memory loss? - ttddAlzheimer's Disease
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. Absence of the vas deferens is a symptom of what disease that causes mucus buildup in the lungs? - ttddCystic Fibrosis
Life Science: Answer the following questions about vaccines. A vaccine for what disease was first created by Jonas Salk in 1952 and was later made into an oral vaccine by Albert Sabin in 1957? - ttddPolio
Life Science: Answer the following questions about vaccines. A vaccine for what disease was created by Edward Jenner in 1798? - ttddSmallpox
Life Science: Answer the following questions about vaccines. This scientist discovered the antibacterial uses of lysozyme when treating nasal mucus from a head cold patient. His most famous discovery came from leaving a piece of bread out and realizing the antibacterial uses of the culture that grew on it overnight. Name this Scottish scientist, most commonly known for his discovery of penicillin. - ttddAlexander Fleming
Life Science: Name these parts of the immune system. What cells that are part of the immune system are also known as leukocytes? - ttddWhite blood cells
Life Science: Name these parts of the immune system. What immune cells mature from monocytes and have a name meaning "big eaters" in Greek? - ttddMacrophages
Life Science: Name these parts of the immune system. Dependent upon which B lymphocyte they are produced by, these proteins can be either polyclonal or monoclonal. They come in five major classes: G, A, M, E, and D, and they are secreted by B cells. Name these proteins that fight foreign pathogens in the body. - ttddAntibodies
Life Science: Given a prefix, identify its meaning. For instance, if I said "cardio," you would say "heart." Leuko - ttddWhite
Life Science: Given a prefix, identify its meaning. For instance, if I said "cardio," you would say "heart." Erythro - ttddRed
Life Science: Given a prefix, identify its meaning. For instance, if I said "cardio," you would say "heart." Osteo - ttddBone
Life Science: Given a list of animals, identify the class or group to which they belong. Elephants, tigers, bats and dolphins - ttddMammals
Life Science: Given a list of animals, identify the class or group to which they belong. Alligators, snapping turtles, and diamondback rattlesnakes - ttddReptiles
Life Science: Given a list of animals, identify the class or group to which they belong. Toss-Up: A living fossil within this group is the coelacanth. Osteichthyes and chondrichthyes are classes of this group of animals. Members of this group come in hammerhead, rainbow, and angler varieties. Identify this group of animals that include the shark, bass, and trout. - ttddFish
Life Science: Name these organs. This organ pumps blood throughout the body with the help of veins and arteries. - ttddHeart
Life Science: Name these organs. Food enters this organ via the esophagus, and it is the site of digestion. - ttddStomach
Life Science: Name these organs. Toss-Up: This organ contains the Loop of Henle and secretes renin. The functional unit of this organ is called the nephron. In times of failure, dialysis can be used to perform what organ's functions, which includes filtering the body's blood? - ttddKidney
Life Science: Name these parts of the eye. What hole in the center of the eye allows light to pass through? - ttddPupil
Life Science: Name these parts of the eye. What part of the eye gives it its color, and it surrounds the pupil? - ttddIris
Life Science: Name these parts of the eye. Muller cells are found within this part of the eye. This structure has seven layers and is composed of the macula lutea and fovea centralis. One disease of this structure is a lack of a pigment that causes color blindness. Name this part of the eye that contains rods and cones. - ttddRetina
Life Science: Answer these questions about a certain biological molecule. What molecules are responsible for catalyzing, or speeding up, reactions? - ttddEnzyme(s)
Life Science: Answer these questions about a certain biological molecule. Enzymes work by decreasing what type of energy that is needed for the reaction? - ttddActivation energy
Life Science: Answer these questions about a certain biological molecule. What name is given to the process by which enzymes are destroyed, losing its catalytic ability? - ttddDenaturation
Life Science: Name some organs. This organ's primary function is red blood cell destruction. - ttddSpleen
Life Science: Name some organs. This organ's primary function is to store and release bile. - ttddGallbladder
Life Science: Name some organs. Toss-Up: One problem this organ can encounter is the formation of scar tissue known as Asherman's Syndrome. This organ is connected via the broad ligament and is absent in MRKH Syndrome. Name this female reproductive organ, which is the location of gestation. - ttddUterus
Life Science: Name these diseases. The presence of beta-amyloid [am-uh-loid] plaques are a sign of what disease that can cause dementia in the elderly population? - ttddAlzheimer's Disease
Life Science: Name these diseases. An expansion of CAG repeats on chromosome four can cause what autosomal dominant disease's symptoms include jerky movements known as "chorea?" - ttddHuntington's Disease
Life Science: Name these diseases. Toss-Up: This disease sometimes is doubly eponymous with Ullrich. People with this disease commonly have webbed necks and can suffer from gonadal dysfunction, or non-working ovaries. Name this disease that is only present in females and is caused by an absent X chromosome. - ttddTurner's Syndrome
Life Science: Name these terms from life science that start with the letter A. What organ is generally located in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen and is considered to be a vestigial organ? - ttddAppendix
Life Science: Name these terms from life science that start with the letter A. What name is given to the structures that carry oxygenated blood throughout the body? - ttddArteries
Life Science: Name these terms from life science that start with the letter A. Toss-Up: This structure has two bundles, the anteromedial and the posterolateral [pos·ter·o·lat·er·al]. The function of this structure is to resist anterior translation and medial rotation of the tibia. It is sometimes referred to as the cranial cruciate ligament, and tearing this ligament will cost an athlete a year of playing time. Name this major ligament, one of four in the knee. - ttddAnterior cruciate ligament or ACL
Life Science: Name these parts of the kidney. What name is the functional unit of the kidney that regulates the flow of water by filtering blood? - ttddNephron
Life Science: Name these parts of the kidney. What name is given to the tube of smooth muscle that transports urine from the kidney? - ttddUreter
Life Science: Name these parts of the kidney. Toss-Up: This part of the kidney receives its blood supply from a series of straight capillaries known as the vasa recta. It leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule. Name this part of the kidney whose function is to create a concentration gradient in the kidney and whose name comes from its discoverer, F. G. J. Henle [Hen-lee]. - ttddLoop of Henle or Henle's loop or nephron loop
Life Science: Name these organs. What organ contains the Duct of Wirsung and produces insulin and glucagon? - ttddPancreas
Life Science: Name these organs. What organ is affected by cirrhosis and produces bile? - ttddLiver
Life Science: Name these organs. Toss-Up: One disease of this organ is Meckel's diverticulum and the Crypt of Lieberkuhn [lē′ber-kēn] secretes enzymes in it. This organ contains Meissner's Plexus and Peyer's patches. Name this organ that is split into the ileum, jejunum, and duodenum. - ttddSmall Intestine
Life Science: Identify these parts of the heart. What part of the heart connects the left atrium to the left ventricle? - ttddBicuspid valve (or Mitral valve)
Life Science: Identify these parts of the heart. What part of the heart connects the right atrium to the right ventricle? - ttddTricuspid valve
Life Science: Identify these parts of the heart. Toss-Up: This part of the heart contains the Sinus of Valsartan. Leoys-Dietz [louis-deetz] syndrome, Takayashu [tah′kah-yah′sū] disease, and Marfam Syndrome all affect this structure of the heart. People with Turner's syndrome have a narrowing of it. Name this largest artery in the body. - ttddAorta
Life Science: Given a list of organs and structures, identify the body system they are a part of. Mouth, esophagus, and stomach - ttddDigestive System
Life Science: Given a list of organs and structures, identify the body system they are a part of. Brain, spinal cord, and neurons - ttddNervous System
Life Science: Given a list of organs and structures, identify the body system they are a part of. Toss-Up: One of this system's organs includes Bowman's capsule. Another organ in this system has a sphincter, unique to the male species, which prevents semen from entering it. An organ from this system filters blood and produces urine. Name this system that includes the kidneys and bladder. - ttddExcretory System
Life Science: Identify these biomes. This biome is characterized by an extreme lack of rain, very little foliage, and extreme heat. - ttddDesert
Life Science: Identify these biomes. This biome receives immense amounts of rain and has the largest diversity of plant and animal species. - ttddRainforest
Life Science: Identify these biomes. Toss-Up: This biome is home to the Christmas tree worm, the armored snail, and the golden lace nudibranch. Pelagic and abyssal are two layers it can be divided into. It includes the Caribbean and Gulf Stream currents. Identify this biome that takes up seventy-one percent of the Earth's surface. - ttddOcean
Life Science: Answer these questions about neurons. What long and slender projections send electrical currents away from the neuron's cell body? - ttddAxons
Life Science: Answer these questions about neurons. What branch-like projections receive electric signals from stimuli? - ttddDendrites
Life Science: Answer these questions about neurons. Toss-Up: Schwann cells supply this substance for peripheral neurons. The main function of this substance's layer is to increase the speed that impulses are transmitted along its namesake fiber. Name this substance that forms a namesake sheath around the axon of a neuron. - ttddMyelin
Life Science: Identify these bones What bone of the human body is also known as the collarbone? - ttddClavicle
Life Science: Identify these bones What bone of the human body is commonly referred to as the shoulder bone? - ttddScapula
Life Science: Identify these bones Toss-Up: This bone is the largest sesamoid bone in the human body. It starts off as soft cartilage in babies and then begins to ossify into bone after about three years of age. This bone is thick and has a circular-triangular shape. Name this bone also known as the kneecap. - ttddPatella
Life Science: Name these organelles. This organelle comes in rough and smooth varieties and is continuous with the nucleus. - ttddEndoplasmic Reticulum or ER
Life Science: Name these organelles. This organelle stores, packages, and exports molecules through the use of vacuoles. - ttddGolgi apparatus/body/complex
Life Science: Name these organelles. Toss-Up: p53 localization occurs within this organelle. It contains fibrillar centers, and ribosomes are synthesized here. During mitosis, this organelle's components are condensed into chromosomes. Name this organelle found within the nucleus. - ttddNucleolus [do NOT accept or prompt on "nucleus"]
Life Science: Answer these questions about Punnett Squares. If brown eyes have complete dominance over blue eyes, what is the probability that a couple's child will have blue eyes if the male is homozygous recessive and the female is heterozygous? - ttdd50% or 1/2
Life Science: Answer these questions about Punnett Squares. If a male with type AB blood is crossed with a female that has type O blood, what is the probability that their child will have type O blood? - ttdd0% or 0
Life Science: Answer these questions about Punnett Squares. Toss-Up: TWENTY SECONDS WILL BE ALLOWED FOR THIS QUESTION. In a dihybrid cross, green pigment has complete dominance over yellow pigment and tall plants have complete dominance over short plants. If a heterozygous tall, yellow plant is crossed with a short, heterozygous green plant, what is the probability that the offspring will be short and yellow? - ttdd25% or 1/4
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. What respiratory inflammation disease results in wheezing and difficulty breathing? It is often treated with an inhaler. - ttddAsthma
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. What disease has type one and type two forms and leads to high blood sugar levels? - ttddDiabetes
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. The presence of Negri bodies is used to diagnose this disease that has been treated using the Milwaukee protocol. Jeanna Giese and Joseph Meister both survived this disease, the latter because of a Louis Pasteur vaccine. Commonly spread by bats is what disease that can cause foaming at the mouth and is often associated with dogs? - ttddRabies
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. These proteins catalyze biological reactions and usually have names ending in "-ase." - ttddEnzymes
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. These organic molecules are the building blocks of proteins, form peptide bonds and include tryptophan. - ttddAmino acids
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. Tonegawa's experiments discovered how these molecules develop and two varieties of these molecules must be used in a sandwich ELISA. These molecules have Fc and Fab portions and they contain both heavy and light chains. Secreted by B cells and binding to epitopes are what Y-shaped glycoproteins that bind to antigens in the immune response? - ttddAntibodies
Life Science: Identify the following cellular organelles. This organelle is the site of lipid synthesis and comes in rough and smooth varieties. - ttddEndoplasmic Reticulum or ER
Life Science: Identify the following cellular organelles. This organelle is composed of cisternae and is the site of the processing and packaging of lipids and proteins. - ttddGolgi apparatus/body
Life Science: Identify the following cellular organelles. These organelles bind to the Kozak sequence, as well as the Shine-Dalgarno sequence, and they are described in terms of Svedberg units. These organelles have 30S and 50S subunits, and they are found in prokaryotes. The site of protein synthesis, are what organelles that can be free or bound to the rough ER? - ttddRibosomes
Life Science: Identify the following types of cells. What lymphocytes mature in the thymus and come in helper and cytotoxic varieties? - ttddT cells
Life Science: Identify the following types of cells. What lymphocytes are produced by the bone marrow and produce antibodies? - ttddB cells
Life Science: Identify the following types of cells. Bernard-Soulier syndrome affects these cells that form by budding off of megakaryocytes in the red marrow. Fibrinogen binds these cells together, and they contain alpha granules and von Willebrand factor. Identify these cells, also known as thrombocytes, which aid in blood clotting. - ttddPlatelets [accept Thrombocytes before mentioned]
Life Science: Identify the following types of tissue. This type of plant tissue is responsible for transporting water via root pressure or transpirational pull. - ttddXylem
Life Science: Identify the following types of tissue. This type of plant tissue is responsible for transporting sugars and nutrients. - ttddPhloem
Life Science: Identify the following types of tissue. One type of this tissue uses thermogenin to generate heat without shivering, and yellow bone marrow consists mainly of cells of this tissue that has white and brown forms. An excess of this tissue leads to a risk for cardiovascular disease and it stores energy in the form of lipids. Identify this type of tissue that is removed via liposuction. - ttddAdipose tissue [accept any answers related to fat tissue]
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. The Anopheles mosquito transmits this disease that is caused by Plasmodium and can be treated with quinine. - ttddMalaria
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. The Aedes mosquito transmits this disease that can lead to various brain malformations in babies and was the subject of much discussion around the 2016 Olympics. - ttddZika fever or Zika virus disease
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. This disease is caused by a delta-F508 mutation of three nucleotides coding for phenylalanine, and symptoms include neonatal intestinal blockage and absence of the vas deferens. Originally diagnosed via a sweat test, is what disease that causes mucus buildup in the tissues and lungs? - ttddCystic Fibrosis or CF
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning 'C' terms from biology. What outermost layer of the eye has its curvature changed during LASIK surgery? - ttddCornea
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning 'C' terms from biology. What shell-shaped organ in the inner ear names an implant that can allow deaf people to hear? - ttddCochlea
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning 'C' terms from biology. A possible analogue of this disease in cows is caused by the bacterium MAP and is known as Johne's disease. Famous sufferers of this disease include David Garrard, Shannen Doherty and Dwight Eisenhower. Similar to ulcerative colitis, this disease is named after an American scientist. Identify this form of inflammatory bowel disease that can lead to chronic diarrhea. - ttddCrohn's Disease
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. What polysaccharide forms the cells walls of fungi, as well as the exoskeletons of arthropods? - ttddChitin
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. Team C: What molecule forms the cells walls of bacteria and is stained in Gram staining? - ttddPeptidoglycan
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. What lipid molecule biosynthesized by all animal cells is an essential structural component of cell membranes? - ttddCholesterol
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning the classification of animals. What group of mammals raise their young in an external pouch and includes opossums and kangaroos? - ttddMarsupials
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning the classification of animals. What order of mammals lay eggs and includes the echidna and the duck-billed platypus? - ttddMonotremes
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning the classification of animals. Organisms in this phylum have a stereom and pincer-like pedicellariae. One organism in this phylum has a large set of teeth known as Aristotle's lantern and madreporites and a water vascular systems are typical of organisms in it. Tube-feet and pentaradial symmetry help define what phylum that includes sea urchins and starfish and has a name meaning "spiny skin"? - ttddEchinodermata or Echinoderms
Life Science: Answer these questions about model organisms. What unicellular protists can change their shape and move using pseudopods? - ttddAmoebas
Life Science: Answer these questions about model organisms. What unicellular fungus can convert sugars to carbon dioxide and ethanol and is used in baking? - ttddYeast
Life Science: Answer these questions about model organisms. Genes in these organisms include Bicoid, Oskar, and Hunchback, and these organisms contain the proteins Sevenless and Bride of Sevenless. Polytene chromosomes are characteristic of these organisms that have an ommatidia. Identify these model organisms that were studied by Thomas Hunt Morgan and are a genus of insect. - ttddDrosophila melanogaster or Fruit flies [prompt on "fly]
Life Science: Identify the following types of tissue found in the human body. This type of connective tissue connects muscles to bones. - ttddTendons
Life Science: Identify the following types of tissue found in the human body. This type of connective tissue connects bones to other bones. - ttddLigaments
Life Science: Identify the following types of tissue found in the human body. Proteoglycans and collagen are found within this tissue that has three types - hyaline, articular, and elastic. This tissue breaks down in osteoarthritis and is found in the joints between bones. The skeletons of sharks are made of what connective tissue that makes up humans' noses and ears? - ttddCartilage
Life Science: Answer the following questions about diseases. What disease that weakens the immune system can be treated using AZT? - ttddAIDS or Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
Life Science: Answer the following questions about diseases. AIDS is caused by what retrovirus? - ttddHIV or Human Immunodeficiency Virus
Life Science: Answer the following questions about diseases. Abnormal alpha-synuclein and Lewy bodies are found in sufferers of this disease that is caused by damage to the substantia nigra and can be treated by L-Dopa. Caused by a deficiency of dopamine, is what disease that causes the loss of motor skills and is sometimes known as "shaking palsy"? - ttddParkinson's Disease
Life Science: Identify the following organs of the human body. Peristalsis occurs in this organ that transports food from the mouth to the stomach. - ttddEsophagus
Life Science: Identify the following organs of the human body. The pharynx is connected to the larynx by this organ that allows for the passage of air. - ttddTrachea [prompt on "windpipe"]
Life Science: Identify the following organs of the human body. This organ is affected by Crigler-Najjar syndrome, as well as Budd-Chiari syndrome. Glisson's capsule surrounds this organ that is bisected by the falciform ligament. The portal vein flows through this organ that synthesizes cholesterol and is affected by hepatitis and cirrhosis. Identify this organ that produces bile. - ttddLiver
Life Science: Identify the following types of vitamins. A deficiency of this vitamin can cause rickets, and it is found in milk, as well as being produced in the skin by exposure to sunlight. - ttddVitamin D
Life Science: Identify the following types of vitamins. This vitamin that is also known as retinol and beta-carotene is found in carrots and is important to low-light and color vision. - ttddVitamin A
Life Science: Identify the following types of vitamins. Warfarin targets an enzyme that reduces this vitamin's epoxide and deficiencies of this vitamin can lead to hematomas and bruising. This vitamin is found prominently in green leafy vegetables because it is directly involved in photosynthesis. Identify this vitamin that plays an important role in blood clotting. - ttddVitamin K
Life Science: Identify the following classifications of organisms. This taxonomic class of mollusks contains conches, periwinkles, snails, and slugs. - ttddGastropods
Life Science: Identify the following classifications of organisms. This taxonomic class of mollusks contains squids and octopi. - ttddCephalopods
Life Science: Identify the following classifications of organisms. The Spitzenkorper is the site of growth in these organisms that have clamp connections and the filaments that make these organisms form a mycelium. Hyphae help to form organisms in this kingdom that have cells with chitinous cell walls. Identify this phylum that contains yeasts, molds, and mushrooms. - ttddFungi
Life Science: Identify the following cellular organelles. These whip-like projections aid in cellular movement and have a nine plus two arrangement of microtubules. - ttddFlagella or Flagellum
Life Science: Identify the following cellular organelles. These hair-like projections also aid in cellular movement. - ttddCilia
Life Science: Identify the following cellular organelles. This organelle is affected by Hurler's disease, I-Cell disease, and Fabry disease. Defective hexosaminidase can lead to ganglioside buildup in this organelle, causing symptoms of Tay-Sachs disease. An acidic internal environment is maintained within what organelle that is responsible for breaking down cellular waste? - ttddLysosomes
Life Science: Answer these questions about cell division. What process takes place after telophase and sees a cell's cytoplasm divided into two daughter cells? - ttddCytokinesis
Life Science: Answer these questions about cell division. What phase within interphase is the part of the cell cycle during which DNA is replicated? - ttddS phase or Synthesis phase
Life Science: Answer these questions about cell division. This process begins when securin is marked with ubiquitin for destruction and this process follows the destruction of B-cyclin. Cohesion is broken down in this process, and the centromeres are split. The daughter chromosomes are pulled to the poles in what stage of mitosis that comes between metaphase and telophase? - ttddAnaphase [prompt on "mitosis"]
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. What most abundant protein on Earth catalyzes a key step during the Calvin Cycle in photosynthesis? - ttddRuBisCo
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. What polysaccharide form of glucose is stored in liver and muscle cells? - ttddGlycogen
Life Science: Identify the following biological molecules. Max Perutz studied this molecule's ability to transfer from the T to R state, and the Haldane and Bohr effects concern this protein that is a porphyrin ring with a central iron atom. With a very high affinity for carbon monoxide, is what protein that transports oxygen to tissues throughout the body in red blood cells? - ttddHemoglobin
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. Watson and Crick used the X-ray pictures of DNA by what woman who was deceased when they were awarded the Nobel Prize? - ttddRosalind Franklin
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What woman discovered transposons, also known as "jumping genes," through her studies on maize kernels? - ttddBarbara McClintock
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. This scientist was urged by his employer to stop studying mice, which lead him to his most famous experiments. He formulated a law stating that every organism has two alleles for each trait. Another law formulated by this man states that separate traits are passed independently to offspring. Identify this monk who conducted genetic studies on pea plants. - ttddGregor Mendel
Life Science: Identify the following enzymes. What enzyme that breaks down starch is found in saliva? - ttddAmylase
Life Science: Identify the following enzymes. What enzyme contained within peroxisomes breaks down hydrogen peroxide? - ttddCatalase
Life Science: Identify the following enzymes. Werner syndrome is linked to these proteins and the DEAD box proteins are a type of these enzymes that work on RNA. DnaB is a more common example of these enzymes that break the hydrogen bonds between nucleotides in DNA. Identify these enzymes that are responsible for opening the replication fork during DNA replication. - ttddHelicases [accept DNA Helicase]
Life Science: Identify the following chemical elements given biology-based clues. Three ions of this element are transported for every two ions of potassium by a namesake membrane protein pump. - ttddSodium
Life Science: Identify the following chemical elements given biology-based clues. This element is only found in the amino acids methionine and cysteine, and it also helps to form a namesake type of bridge that is involved in the structure of proteins. - ttddSulfur
Life Science: Identify the following chemical elements given biology-based clues. Concentrations of this element in the body are increased by parathyroid hormone and it binds to troponin during muscle contraction. This element is released from the sarcoplasmic reticulum and its concentrations are increased by vitamin D. Identify this element that is important for teeth and bone strength. - ttddCalcium
Life Science: Identify the following bones in the human body. This bone that connects the scapula to the sternum is also known as the collarbone. - ttddClavicle
Life Science: Identify the following bones in the human body. This bone of the upper arm connects the scapula to the bones of the lower arm, the radius and the ulna. - ttddHumerus
Life Science: Identify the following bones in the human body. The pectineal line on this bone is where the pectineus muscle attaches, and the greater and lesser trochanters are located at the head of this bone. The lateral and medial condyle of this bone lie near the patella, and it forms a ball-and-socket joint with the pelvis. Identify this longest bone in the human body that is located in the thigh. - ttddFemur
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning organs. What functional units of the kidney filter blood and contain the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule? - ttddNephrons
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning organs. What name is given to the fingerlike projections in the small intestine? - ttddVilli
Life Science: Answer these questions concerning organs. A depression known as the hilum can be found in this organ and ACE converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II here. The pleura is a membrane that surrounds this organ that arachnids have a book type of. Sacs known as alveoli and tubes known as bronchi are found within what organs of the respiratory system? - ttddLungs
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological processes. What process sees genetic information copied from a DNA strand to messenger RNA? - ttddTranscription
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological processes. After mRNA splicing, what name is given to the sequences that remain? - ttddExons
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological processes. Succinate is an intermediate in this process that forms fumarate in one step and reduces ubiquinone in another. Pyruvate is converted to acetyl-CoA before this process begins, and it occurs between glycolysis and the electron transport chain. Identify this cycle within cellular respiration that is also known as the citric acid cycle. - ttddKrebs Cycle [accept Citric Acid Cycle before mentioned]
Life Science: Identify the following animal phyla. Leeches, earthworms, and segmented worms are found within what phylum that have chitinous bristles known as setae? - ttddAnnelida or Annelids
Life Science: Identify the following animal phyla. C. elegans and hookworms belong to what phylum that contains non-segmented roundworms? - ttddNematoda or Nematodes
Life Science: Identify the following animal phyla. Organisms in this phylum possess a byssal gland and geoducks belong to this phylum whose organisms have a breathing apparatus known as the ctenidia. A chitinous teeth ribbon known as the radula is characteristic of what phylum that contains periwinkles, bivalves, squids, and snails? - ttddMollusca or Mollusks
Life Science: Identify the following hormones. What gaseous hydrocarbon is the plant hormone that is responsible for the ripening of fruit? - ttddEthylene
Life Science: Identify the following hormones. What plant hormone is responsible for inducing bud dormancy and making leaves fall off? - ttddAbscisic acid or Dormin
Life Science: Identify the following hormones. This hormone activates TIR1 and is transported by PIN proteins in a process known as polar transport in parenchymal cells. Components of Agent Orange were examples of this hormone discovered by Frits Went. Indole acetic acid is an example of what plant hormone that promotes stem elongation and the growth of roots? - ttddAuxins
Life Science: Answer these genetics related questions. What term refers to the genetic makeup of a cell, rather than just what trait is exhibited? - ttddGenotype
Life Science: Answer these genetics related questions. What term refers to an organism's complete genetic material? - ttddGenome
Life Science: Answer these genetics related questions. This concept can be represented graphically using a de Finetti diagram, and it requires large, random mating pools that do not mutate. This concept can be generalized to polyploidy and in it, p-squared represents the proportion of homozygous dominant individuals. Identify this doubly-eponymous principle stating that allele and genotype frequencies remain unchanged in its namesake equilibrium. - ttddHardy-Weinberg Equilibrium/Principle
Life Science: Identify the following experiments. What doubly-eponymous experiment utilized bacteriophages to infect bacteria to support the claim that DNA is the genetic material? - ttddHershey-Chase experiment [accept names in either order]
Life Science: Identify the following experiments. What doubly-eponymous experiment attempted to simulate the conditions of primordial Earth and produced amino acids and other organic compounds? - ttddMiller-Urey experiment [accept names in either order]
Life Science: Identify the following experiments. This experiment was verified by the Taylor-Woods-Hughes experiment. It disproved Max Delbruck's dispersive hypothesis that E. coli was transferred from a nitrogen-15 to a nitrogen-14 environment in this experiment. It is named after two Caltech researchers. Identify this experiment that showed DNA is semiconservative. - ttddMeselson-Stahl experiment [accept names in either order]
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What man developed the first successful polio vaccine? - ttddJonas Salk
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What man developed the first oral polio vaccine? - ttddAlbert Sabin
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. This scientist names an effect in which increased oxygen levels lead to decreased fermentation activity. He utilized meat broth to help disprove spontaneous generation. This man developed vaccines for both anthrax and rabies. Identify this scientist that developed a namesake process for killing microorganisms in liquids, such as milk. - ttddLouis Pasteur
Life Science: What four ringed molecule that can build up in your arteries to cause atherosclerosis is lowered by drugs like Crestor and Lipitor? - ttddCholesterol
Life Science: Team C: What oxygen carrying molecule attached to red blood cells is impaired in sickle cell anemia and is affected by pH changes in the Bohr Effect? - ttddHemoglobin
Life Science: What entities that fight disease are produced by B Cells and are also known as immunoglobulins? - ttddAntibodies
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. What condition sees cells in the body reproduce too quickly and spread through metastasis? - ttddCancer
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. The pigment producing cells in the skin rapidly divide in what type of skin cancer? - ttddMelanoma
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. Toss-Up: A valine being substituted for a glutamic acid in a certain protein leads to this disease that can have its symptoms treated with hydroxyurea. People that carry the gene for this disease are resistant to malaria. Blood vessels can become clogged as a result of what disease that refers to the shape that red blood cells present? - ttddSickle cell anemia
Life Science: Answer these questions about a type of biological molecule. Enzymes are catalysts that are a type of what class of biological molecules that can be contrasted with lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids? - ttddProteins
Life Science: Answer these questions about a type of biological molecule. The building blocks of proteins are what molecules that include lysine and glycine? - ttddAmino acids
Life Science: Answer these questions about a type of biological molecule. Toss-Up: This protein is stained blue by Masson's trichrome, and it is affected by Alport syndrome. The synthesis of this protein is inhibited by low intake of Vitamin C. What protein is responsible for providing tensile strength to the skin, teeth, bones, and hair? - ttddCollagen
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. What name is given to the foldings of the inner membrane of the mitochondria? - ttddCristae
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. In chloroplasts, grana are stacks of flattened disks that are given what name? - ttddThylakoids
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. Toss-Up: This organelle is affected by I-Cell disease and Fabry disease. Defective hexosaminidase A can lead to gangliosides building up in this organelle, and compounds destined for it are tagged with mannose-6-phosphate. Identify this organelle that maintains an acidic environment and breaks down cellular waste. - ttddLysosomes
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological processes. The Calvin Cycle is a part of what larger process that sees plants convert light energy into glucose? - ttddPhotosynthesis
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological processes. The Krebs Cycle is part of what larger process that sees the body produce ATP? - ttddCellular respiration
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological processes. Toss-Up: Minimal change disease affects this organ that can scar in Alport syndrome. The proximal and distal convoluted tubules are in this organ that also contains the loop of Henle and the glomerulus. Nephrons participate in the process of blood filtration in what pair of bean-shaped organs? - ttddKidneys
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. What is the anatomical name for the breastbone? - ttddSternum
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. The partition between your two nostrils is known by what name? - ttddSeptum
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Toss-Up: This organ is absent in Ivemark syndrome, and sinusoids hold emergency monocyte reserves in this organ. In times of deficiency, this organ can produce red blood cells, and it consists of red and white pulp. What organ is responsible for the destruction of red blood cells? - ttddSpleen
Life Science: Identify the following organelles. What organelle is known as the "powerhouse of the cell" and is the site of ATP production? - ttddMitochondria
Life Science: Identify the following organelles. What plant organelle that contains stroma and grana is the site of photosynthesis? - ttddChloroplast
Life Science: Identify the following organelles. Toss-Up: N-linked glycosylation occurs in this organelle that helps break down poisons and other toxins in the body. KDEL works within this organelle to help retain proteins within its internal space called the lumen. Spermatozoa and red blood cells lack this organelle, while COPII travels from this organelle to the Golgi Apparatus. Sarcoplasmic is a specialized type of what organelle that comes in smooth and rough varieties? - ttddEndoplasmic Reticulum or E.R.
Life Science: Identify the following processes. Diploid cells are produced during what process that includes prophase and metaphase? - ttddMitosis
Life Science: Identify the following processes. Haploid cells are produced during what process that includes prophase I and metaphase II? - ttddMeiosis
Life Science: Identify the following processes. Toss-Up: The first step of this cycle produces citrulline, and arginase hydrolyzes arginine into ornithine and the namesake compound of this cycle. This cycle makes nitrogenous waste into a form that is more excretable by the body. Identify this process that converts ammonia into the waste product excreted in urine. - ttddUrea cycle
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. The cell walls of fungi are made of what substance? - ttddChitin
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. The cell walls of bacteria are made of what substance? - ttddPeptidoglycan
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. Toss-Up: Masson's trichrome stains this protein blue, and Goodpasture's Syndrome and Alport Syndrome affect this protein. Low intake of vitamin C inhibits the synthesis of this protein that has a triple helical structure. Identify this protein that is found in cartilage, tendons, and other connective tissues. - ttddCollagen
Life Science: Identify the following glands or organs. What glands that sit atop the kidneys produce epinephrine? - ttddAdrenal glands
Life Science: Identify the following glands or organs. What organ in the chest is the site of T cell maturation? - ttddThymus
Life Science: Identify the following glands or organs. Toss-Up: A loss of the control of this structure can lead to cretinism, and Hashimoto's Disease and Grave's Disease affect this structure. This gland secretes thyroxine, calcitonin, T3, and T4. Goiter is when this gland becomes enlarged because of a lack of iodine. Identify this gland located in the neck in front of the trachea. - ttddThyroid gland
Life Science: Identify the following organisms. What nematode and model organism undergoes apoptosis exactly one hundred ninety-one times? - ttddC. elegans
Life Science: Identify the following organisms. What disease causing agent is carried by Anopheles mosquitoes and causes malaria? - ttddPlasmodium
Life Science: Identify the following organisms. Toss-Up: Bicoid, Oskar, and Hunchback are genes in these organisms that contain proteins called Sevenless and Bride of Sevenless. Polytene chromosomes can be found in these organisms that have an ommatidia and were studied by Thomas Hunt Morgan. Identify these organisms more commonly known as fruit flies. - ttddDrosophila melanogaster (accept fruit fly before mentioned; prompt on "fly")
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. What name is given to the inner foldings of the mitochondria? - ttddCristae
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. What name is given to the flattened membrane discs that make up the Golgi apparatus? - ttddCisternae
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. Toss-Up: These organelles bind to the Kozak and Shine-Dalgarno sequence, and they can be described in Svedberg units. These organelles have 30S/50S or 40S/60S subunits, and they are found in prokaryotes. The site of protein synthesis are what organelles that can be bound to the endoplasmic reticulum? - ttddRibosomes
Life Science: Answer these questions about evolutionary biology. Allopatric and parapatric are types of what process, by which new biological species arise? - ttddSpeciation
Life Science: Answer these questions about evolutionary biology. What term is used to describe the change in the frequency of an allele in a population due to random sampling? - ttddGenetic Drift
Life Science: Answer these questions about evolutionary biology. What doubly-eponymous principle states that allele frequencies will remain constant from generation to generation barring other evolutionary changes? - ttddHardy-Weinberg Principle
Life Science: Identify these parts of human organs. This central transparent region of the eye appears black and allows light to enter the eye. - ttddPupil
Life Science: Identify these parts of human organs. This part of the eye surrounds the pupil and is the colored part of the eye. - ttddIris
Life Science: Identify these parts of human organs. Scheerer's phenomenon affects this structure that contains amacrine and Muller cells, and a cherry-red spot on this structure is used to diagnose Tay-Sachs disease. The macula and fovea make up this structure that contains rods and cones. Identify this light-sensitive structure at the back of the eye. - ttddRetina
Life Science: Identify the following vitamins. The lack of what vitamin that can be obtained from exposure to UV light can lead to rickets in children? - ttddVitamin D
Life Science: Identify the following vitamins. What vitamin that can be found in leafy green vegetables contains the necessary proteins needed for blood to clot? - ttddVitamin K
Life Science: Identify the following vitamins. Toss-Up: In one study, high levels of this vitamin were shown to reduce the ability to develop cataracts, and a precursor to this vitamin is Tryptophan. A lack of this vitamin in the body can lead to the formation of a casal necklace in patients who contract Hartnup disease. This vitamin, along with aspartic acid, are used to synthesize NADH. Pellagra is caused from a lack of what B vitamin, originally found in nicotine, that is also known as Niacin? - ttddVitamin B3 (accept Niacin until mentioned; prompt on "Vitamin B" or similar)
Life Science: Answer these questions about the nervous system. What name is given to the projections of neurons that send the electrochemical signals? - ttddAxons
Life Science: Answer these questions about the nervous system. What name is given to the space between neurons across which electrochemical signals are sent? - ttddSynapse
Life Science: Answer these questions about the nervous system. The Marr-Albus model concerns this granule cell containing structure and lesions on it can cause ataxia. The flocculonodular lobe is a part of this structure that contains mossy fibers and maintains motor control, balance, and muscle activity. Identify this part of the brain that has a name meaning "little brain." - ttddCerebellum [do not prompt or accept "cerebrum"; prompt on "brain"]
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions that are known by acronyms. Gardasil is a vaccine against what virus that can cause genital warts and cervical cancer? - ttddHPV or Human Papilloma Virus
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions that are known by acronyms. Putting a child on its back to sleep is recommended to help prevent what syndrome that still does not have a verified cause and is also known as crib death? - ttddSIDS or Sudden Infant Death Syndrome
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions that are known by acronyms. Toss-Up: This disease was previously known as dementia pugilistica, and because this disease can only be diagnosed by direct tissue examination, it can only be diagnosed postmortem. Jovan Belcher and Junior Seau were affected by this disease that is associated with people suffering repeated blows to the head. Found frequently in players of contact sports such as rugby, boxing, and football is what disease that has, along with concussions, been a recent topic of discussion among professional football players? - ttddCTE or Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy
Life Science: Answer the following questions about organs. The small intestine and stomach are part of what organ system? - ttddDigestive system
Life Science: Answer the following questions about organs. The brain and spinal cord are part of what organ system? - ttdd(Central) Nervous system
Life Science: Answer the following questions about organs. Toss-Up: CCPDMA is used to treat a cancer of this organ that contains eccrine glands. This organ's sebaceous glands secrete a lubricant, and this organ is mostly composed of squamous cells. Basal cell carcinoma affects this organ that is also affected by melanoma. Identify this large organ that is also affected by acne. - ttddSkin
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. Myocardial infarctions are often referred to by what more common two-word name? - ttddHeart attack
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. A cerebrovascular accident is another name for what condition in which the blood supply to the brain is interrupted? - ttddStroke
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. Toss-Up: Zileuton can be used to treat this disease that can be diagnosed using methacholine. This disease is more commonly diagnosed using a peak flow meter, and a nebulizer can be used to reduce its symptoms. More commonly treated with an albuterol inhaler is what disease that can cause namesake wheezing attacks? - ttddAsthma
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. What name is used to describe organisms whose cells have a nucleus surrounded by a membrane? - ttddEukaryotic or Eukaryote (accept word forms)
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. What name is used to describe organisms whose cells lack a membrane-bound nucleus? - ttddProkaryotic or Prokaryote (accept word forms)
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. Toss-Up: The lamella connects structures within this organelle that contains the TIC and TOC proteins. The cytochrome b6f complex is found within this organelle that contains stroma and is composed of stacks of thylakoids known as grana. Identify this cellular organelle that is the site of the Calvin Cycle during photosynthesis. - ttddChloroplast
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Any blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to another part of the body is given what name? - ttddArtery or Arteries
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Any blood vessel that carries blood to the heart from another part of the body is given what name? - ttddVeins
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Toss-Up: This organ scars in Alport Syndrome, and Wilms tumors occur in this organ that contains the afferent artery and efferent vein. The loop of Henle, Bowman's capsule, and the glomerulus are all parts of this organ. The nephron is the functional unit of what organ that filters the blood? - ttddKidneys
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What man invented the first vaccine when he developed the smallpox vaccine after realizing milkmaids who worked with cows rarely caught the disease? - ttddEdward Jenner
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What man pioneered antiseptic surgery and has a popular mouthwash named after him? - ttddJoseph Lister (do NOT accept or prompt on "Listerine")
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist has been accused of falsifying data by R.A. Fisher because of how exact some ratios were, and he developed the laws of segregation and independent assortment. The terms dominant and recessive were coined by what Austrian Monk who extensively studied pea plants? - ttddGregor Mendel
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. What short, hair-like projections are used by cells to aid in movement? - ttddCilia
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. What intracellular structure gives the cell its shape and is composed of microtubules, among other materials? - ttddCytoskeleton
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. Toss-Up: The KDEL sequence signals proteins to stay in this organelle, and a variant of it in muscle cells contains calsequestrin. COP I and COP II aid in transport between this organelle and the Golgi, and it synthesizes lipids. Identify this organelle that can be either rough or smooth, depending on the presence of ribosomes. - ttddER or Endoplasmic Reticulum
Life Science: Answer these questions about genetics. Sympatric and allopatric are types of what process in which new species are created? - ttddSpeciation
Life Science: Answer these questions about genetics. What doubly-eponymous statement from genetics can be stated as p-squared plus two pq plus q-squared equals one? - ttddHardy-Weinberg Equilibrium
Life Science: Answer these questions about genetics. Toss-Up: The Moran Model shows this phenomena happening twice as quickly as the Wright-Fisher Model, and it is the subject of Kimura's neutral theory. The bottleneck and founder effects are a type of what phenomenon in which the allele frequency in a population changes? - ttddGenetic drift (prompt on partial answer)
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. The myelin sheath is destroyed in sufferers of what disease that results in lesions of the central nervous system? - ttddMultiple Sclerosis or MS
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. A persistent cough is the primary symptom of what disease caused by a Mycobacterium that is also known as "consumption?" - ttddTuberculosis or TB
Life Science: Identify the following diseases. Toss-Up: A protein involved in this disease undergoes SUMO-lation by the Rhes protein. This disease can result from insufficient levels of the CREB binding protein; however, a primary cause of this disease is chromosome 4's polyQ region possessing CAG repeats. Tetrabenazine treats this disease that has a Westphal variant. Unforced jerking movements called Chorea is a symptom of what neurodegenerative disease commonly recognized around the time adults turn forty? - ttddHuntington's Disease
Life Science: Answer the following about plants. What group of seed-producing plants includes Ginkgo, cycads, and conifers? - ttddGymnosperms
Life Science: Answer the following about plants. What plant hormone is responsible for flowering, seed germination, and stem elongation? - ttddGibberellins
Life Science: Answer the following about plants. Toss-Up: Libriform fibers are found in this system that is explained by Murray's Law. Foraminate, simple, and scalariform are the three classifications for this system's perforation plates. Heartwood and Sapwood are examples of this system's secondary form, and this tissue's cell walls are considered to be "highly lignified." Cohesion-tension theory explains how this tissue works through root pressure. Identify this plant tissue that transports water. - ttddXylem
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. What TWO bones are found in the forearm? - ttddRadius and ulna (in either order)
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. What TWO bones are found in the lower leg? - ttddTibia and fibula (in either order)
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Toss-Up: This tissue is usually harvested at the iliac crest, and mesenchymal stem cells are found within it. Transplants of this tissue are often used to treat leukemia, and it has two types - red and yellow. Identify this tissue that produces lymphocytes and red blood cells and is found in the bones. - ttddBone marrow
Life Science: Answer these questions about organs. What are the names of the small air sacs located in the lungs that function in gas exchange? - ttddAlveoli
Life Science: Answer these questions about organs. What is the name for the finger-like projections in the small intestines that are designed to increase the surface area of the small intestine? - ttddVilli
Life Science: Answer these questions about organs. Toss-Up: Alagille Syndrome causes xanthomas in this organ, and its albumin levels are measured for dysfunction. The falciform ligament bisects this organ that the portal vein flows into. Responsible for synthesizing cholesterol and bile, is what organ that is affected by hepatitis and cirrhosis? - ttddLiver
Life Science: Identify these organs. The Islets of Langerhans are located in what organ that is the site of insulin production? - ttddPancreas
Life Science: Identify these organs. What organ consisting of red and white pulp is the site of red blood cell destruction? - ttddSpleen
Life Science: Identify these organs. Toss-Up: The enlargement of this organ is known as Menetrier Disease, and the antrum and fundus are parts of it. This organ is targeted by H. pylori, and it contains folds known as rugae. Connected to the small intestine by the pyloric sphincter, is what organ of the digestive system that produces hydrochloric acid? - ttddStomach
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. A deficiency of dopamine results in what disease that leads to impaired motor skills and is sometimes called "shaking palsy"? - ttddParkinson's Disease
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. A bullseye shaped rash is a symptom of what disease that is spread by ticks? - ttddLyme Disease
Life Science: Identify the following medical conditions. Toss-Up: Oseltamivir can be used to treat this virus that has a genome with eight single-stranded RNA segments. High mutation rates of this virus lead to names like H1N1, and the Spanish type of this virus caused many deaths in 1918. Identify this virus that many people get shots to prevent each winter. - ttddInfluenza
Life Science: Identify these classifications of organisms. What class of vertebrates possess hair and produce milk for their young? - ttddMammalia or Mammals
Life Science: Identify these classifications of organisms. What subphylum of arthropods have a second pair of antennae and contain lobsters and crabs? - ttddCrustacea or Crustaceans
Life Science: Identify these classifications of organisms. Toss-Up: Organisms in this phylum have a breathing apparatus known as a ctenidia, and periwinkle and conniwinks belong to this phylum. A muscular foot is possessed by organisms in this phylum that have a chitinous tooth ribbon known as the radula. Identify this phylum that contains clams, snails, and squids. - ttddMollusca or Mollusks
Life Science: Answer these questions about the nervous system. What name is given to the bundle of nervous tissue that extends from the brainstem to the lumbar region? - ttddSpinal cord
Life Science: Answer these questions about the nervous system. The spinal cord is protected by a series of what bones that can be classified as cervical, thoracic, or lumbar? - ttddVertebrae
Life Science: Answer these questions about the nervous system. Toss-Up: This structure is the subject of the Marr-Albus model, and it contains the flocculonodular lobe. Lesions on this structure can cause ataxia, and it control motor control, balance, and muscle activity. What part of the brain has a name literally meaning "little brain"? - ttddCerebellum (prompt on "brain")
Life Science: Answer these questions about living organisms. The subfield of biology known as ichthyology studies what organisms? - ttddFish
Life Science: Answer these questions about living organisms. The subfield of biology known as entomology studies what organisms? - ttddInsects (prompt on "bugs")
Life Science: Answer these questions about living organisms. Toss-Up: Organisms in this phylum have an iodine storage organ called an endostyle. Lancelets belong to this phylum that also contains sea squirts and tunicates. Organisms in this phylum have a notochord as well as pharyngeal slits. Identify this phylum that contains all vertebrates, including humans. - ttddChordata or Chordates
Life Science: Identify these organs. Food passes through what organ that connects the pharynx to the stomach? - ttddEsophagus
Life Science: Identify these organs. Extending from the larynx to the bronchial tubes is what organ also known as the windpipe? - ttddTrachea
Life Science: Identify these organs. Toss-Up: ACE converts angiotensin I to angiotensin II in this organ that has a depression known as the hilum. The pleura is a membrane surrounding this organ, and arachnids possess a book form of this organ. Cystic fibrosis causes mucus buildup in what organs that contain alveoli and supply oxygen to the blood? - ttddLungs
Life Science: Answer these questions about genetics. Sympatric and allopatric are types of what process in which new species are created? - ttddSpeciation
Life Science: Answer these questions about genetics. What doubly-eponymous statement from genetics can be stated as p-squared plus two pq plus q-squared equals one? - ttddHardy-Weinberg Equilibrium
Life Science: Answer these questions about genetics. Toss-Up: The Moran Model shows this phenomena happening twice as quickly as the Wright-Fisher Model, and it is the subject of Kimura's neutral theory. The bottleneck and founder effects are a type of what phenomenon in which the allele frequency in a population changes? - ttddGenetic drift (prompt on partial answer)
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. What name is given to the flattened discs that are found within the chloroplasts? - ttddThylakoids
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. The thylakoids are layered in stacks that are given what name? - ttddGrana
Life Science: Answer these questions about cellular organelles. Toss-Up: This organelle contains the GAAP protein that can halt apoptosis, and it adds mannose-6-phosphate to molecules on their way to the lysosomes. Having a cis and trans face and consisting of flattened membrane disks, identify this organelle that processes and packages lipids and proteins? - ttddGolgi body/apparatus
Life Science: Identify these tissues. Coming in brown and white varieties is what type of tissue that stores lipids and is also known as fat tissue? - ttddAdipose tissue
Life Science: Identify these tissues. What tissue found in plants includes the cork cambium and its namesake cambium? - ttddVascular tissue
Life Science: Identify these tissues. Toss-Up: This tissue is the subject of the pressure hypothesis of Ernst Munch, and it operates via transport from sources to sinks. Companion cells and sieve tube members can be found in this tissue. Responsible for transporting nutrients is what plant tissue that is contrasted with the xylem? - ttddPhloem
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What American scientist developed the first successful injectable polio vaccine in 1955? - ttddJonas Salk
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. What British primatologist is best known for her 55 year study of chimpanzees at Gombe Stream National Park in Tanzania? - ttddJane Goodall
Life Science: Identify the following scientists. Tossup: Early work by this scientist helped to identify the three-dimensional structure of the tobacco mosaic virus. This scientist's colleague Maurice Wilkins allowed other scientists to use her "Photo 51" without prior knowledge, leading this scientist to quit her job at King's College in London. Watson and Crick utilized x-ray diffraction patterns identified by what female scientist to discover the structure of DNA? - ttddRosalind Franklin
Life Science: Identify these parts of the human body. What portion of the brain located behind the brainstem is responsible for coordination and motor control? - ttddCerebellum
Life Science: Identify these parts of the human body. The intercostal muscles run between what set of bones of which humans have 12 pair? - ttddRibs OR Rib cage
Life Science: Identify these parts of the human body. Tossup: Disorders of this organ can lead to Alport Syndrome or Goodpasture's Syndrome and this organ may be the site of Wilms Tumors. This organ receives blood from the renal artery and it is connected to the bladder by the ureter. Bowman's Capsule and the Loop of Henle appear inside this organ's functional unit, the nephron. Patients who experience failure of this organ may undergo dialysis. Identify these paired organs that filter blood to produce urine. - ttddKidneys
Life Science: Answer these questions about medical conditions. What autosomal recessive disorder that leads the lungs to produce a thick mucus can be diagnosed via a sweat test? - ttddCystic Fibrosis
Life Science: Answer these questions about medical conditions. A bullseye shaped rash is characteristic of what bacterial disease that is generally spread by ticks? - ttddLyme Disease
Life Science: Answer these questions about medical conditions. Tossup: Clumps of Lewy bodies within brain cells are microscopic markers of this disease, whose first symptom is often a pill-rolling movement between the thumb and forefinger. Death of cells in the substantia nigra of the midbrain results in a lack of dopamine in that area, one of the primary causes of this disease. Notably affecting the late Muhammad Ali, what is this neurodegenerative disease whose primary symptoms are muscle rigidity and uncontrollable tremors? - ttddParkinson's disease
Life Science: Answer these ecology questions. What ecology term refers to a large area with plants and animals with similar characteristics? A taiga is an example. - ttddBiome
Life Science: Answer these ecology questions. What ecology term describes the role that organisms play inside their habitats? - ttddNiche
Life Science: Answer these ecology questions. Toss-Up: This quantity appears in the denominator of the Verhulst-Pearl and Lotka-Volterra equations, and r-strategists can overshoot this quantity. Leeuwenhoek predicted this value to be about 13.4 billion for humans, and it is symbolized k. Identify this value that is the maximum population size an environment can support. - ttddCarrying capacity
Life Science: Answer these medical questions. Neuroimaging can be done using what medical imaging technique that utilizes magnetic fields and radio waves to generate images? - ttddMagnetic Resonance Imaging or MRI
Life Science: Answer these medical questions. Complex fractures can be imaged using what type of scan that makes uses of X-ray measurements from various angles? - ttddCT Scan or CAT Scan
Life Science: Answer these medical questions. Toss-Up: This disease can have its symptoms treated with hydroxyurea, and it occurs when a valine is substituted for a glutamic acid in a certain protein. A heterozygous advantage of this disease is resistance to malaria. Namesake crises caused by this disease occur when blood vessels become clogged. Identify this disease in which the red blood cells are misshapen. - ttddSickle-cell anemia
Life Science: Identify these classifications of organisms. In the six kingdom system, what kingdom contains E. Coli and salmonella? - ttddEubacteria
Life Science: Identify these classifications of organisms. In the six kingdom system, what kingdom contains one celled organisms found in extreme environments such as thermal vents? - ttddArchaebacteria
Life Science: Identify these classifications of organisms. Toss-Up: The Spitzenkorper is the site of growth in these organisms that have cell walls made of chitin. These organisms are formed from hyphae and reproduce using spores. Identify this kingdom of organisms in the six kingdom system that includes yeasts, molds, and mushrooms. - ttddFungi
Life Science: Identify these diseases. What disease sees high blood sugar levels because of the failure of insulin to function properly? - ttddDiabetes mellitus
Life Science: Identify these diseases. The rheumatoid type of what disease causes pain and inflammation in small joints? - ttddArthritis
Life Science: Identify these diseases. Toss-Up: Light colored spots on the iris known as Brushfield spots are a symptom of this disease, and sufferers of this disease are at an increased risk for Alzheimer's Disease. A single creased palm and epicanthic eyelids are symptoms of this disease. Caused by possessing an extra copy of chromosome twenty-one is what disease associated with mental retardation? - ttddDown's Syndrome
Life Science: Identify the following disorders and medical conditions. Characterized by the reversal of letters, what learning disorder impairs a person's reading ability? - ttddDyslexia
Life Science: Identify the following disorders and medical conditions. What disorder can cause its namesake seizures and is associated with abnormal electrical activity in the brain? - ttddEpilepsy
Life Science: Identify the following disorders and medical conditions. Toss-Up: A Congo red stain of tissue can be used to diagnose this disease, and sufferers of its have an extra APP gene. The presence of the APOE4 gene is a genetic risk factor for this disease that sees the accumulation of beta-amyloid plaques. Identify this disease that causes memory loss in the elderly. - ttddAlzheimer's Disease
Life Science: Identify the following vitamins. Thiamine is the name of what B vitamin, a deficiency of which causes beriberi? - ttddVitamin B1
Life Science: Identify the following vitamins. Dark leafy vegetables are a source of what vitamin that is important to blood clotting? - ttddVitamin K
Life Science: Identify the following vitamins. Toss-Up: Keratin plaques known as Bitot spots are a sign of a deficiency of this vitamin, and the cofactor rhodopsin is a derivative of it. This fat-soluble vitamin is sometimes known as retinol, and it can be synthesized from beta-carotene. Identify this vitamin that is important to night vision. - ttddVitamin A (accept retinol or beta-carotene before mentioned)
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. With chemical formula C12H22O11, what biological molecule has its reduced form known as table sugar? - ttddSucrose
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. What molecule also known as fruit sugar is bonded with glucose to form sucrose? - ttddFructose
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. Toss-Up: The C-peptide level can be used to differentiate the artificial and natural forms of this hormone that had its structure studied by Frederick Sanger. This hormone is produced by the beta cells of the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas. Identify this hormone that is lacking in people with diabetes. - ttddInsulin
Life Science: Answer these questions about over the counter drugs. Advil and Motrin are trade names of what drug used to treat pain, fever, and inflammation? - ttddIbuprofen
Life Science: Answer these questions about over the counter drugs. Zyrtec, Allegra, and Claritin are all what kind of drug that helps relieve allergies by reducing the production of its namesake compound? - ttddAntihistamine
Life Science: Answer these questions about over the counter drugs. Toss-Up: The Kolbe-Schmidt reaction can be used to produce this compound, and Reye's syndrome can result when this drug is given to children. This drug was first synthesized by Bayer and is often prescribed long-term as a blood thinner. Also known as acetylsalicylic acid, identify this pain reliever. - ttddAspirin (accept Acetylsalicylic acid before mentioned)
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. What single stranded molecule carries the genetic information from the DNA to the ribosomes? - ttddmRNA or Messenger RNA (prompt on "RNA")
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. What molecules move amino acids to the ribosomes during translation? - ttddtRNA or Transfer RNA (prompt on "RNA")
Life Science: Identify these biological molecules. Toss-Up: These molecules' development was the subject of Tonegawa's experiments. These molecules have Fc and Fab portions and also have heavy and light chains. Epitopes bind to these molecules that are secreted by B cells. Identify these Y-shaped molecules that trigger an immune response. - ttddAntibodies
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. What nitrogenous base pairs with cytosine in DNA? - ttddGuanine
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. What nitrogenous base pairs with thymine in DNA? - ttddAdenine
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. Toss-Up: These molecules' dihedral angles can be seen on a Ramachandran plot, and the Strecker synthesis can be used to make them. Only two of these molecules contain sulfur, and those are cysteine and methionine. Identify these monomers that are linked by peptide bonds to form proteins. - ttddAmino acids
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions. Hodgkin's and Non-Hodgkins are forms of what type of cancer that impacts the immune system and primarily involves white blood cells? - ttddLymphoma
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions. Nonfunctional white blood cells accumulate in what type of cancer of the bone marrow? - ttddLeukemia
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions. Toss-Up: Brushfield spots on the iris are a symptom of this disease, as are epicanthic eye folds. Sufferers of this disease are at an increased risk for Alzheimer's disease, and a single creased palm is a symptom. An extra chromosome twenty-one is possessed by people who suffer from what disease that can lead to mental retardation? - ttddDown syndrome
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. What name is given to the projections of neurons that receive electrochemical signals? - ttddDendrites
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. What name is given to the space between neurons along which electrochemical signals are passed? - ttddSynapse
Life Science: Answer these questions about cells. Toss-Up: These cells release interleukin-2, and they are activated after action of ZAP70. These cells are responsible for delayed hypersensitivity reactions, and they come in gamma-delta, helper, and cytotoxic varieties. Identify these cells of the immune system that are often contrasted with B cells. - ttddT cells
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. What name is given to the hole at the center of the iris of the eye that allows light in? - ttddPupil
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. The Organ of Corti can be found within what structure in the ear that resembles a snail shell and receives sound in the form of vibrations? - ttddCochlea
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Toss-Up: Scheerer's phenomenon affects this structure that contains bipolar and horizontal cells. A red spot on this structure is used to diagnose Tay-Sachs disease. The macula and fovea make up this structure that contains rods and cones. Identify this part of the eye where a visual image is formed. - ttddRetina [prompt on "Eye"]
Life Science: Answer these questions about evolution. What theory of evolution states that evolution occurs in a slow, uniform manner? - ttddGradualism
Life Science: Answer these questions about evolution. What theory of evolution states that evolution occurs rapidly in isolated episodes? - ttddPunctuated equilibrium
Life Science: Answer these questions about evolution. Toss-Up: This process has a greater impact in asexual reproducers, as described by Muller's ratchet. Wobble base pairing helps to prevent some of these instances from changing the amino acid sequence. Missense, nonsense, silent, and point are all types of what permanent change in an organism's DNA? - ttddMutations
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. The blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart are given what name? - ttddVeins
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. The blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart are given what name? - ttddArteries
Life Science: Answer these questions about the human body. Toss-Up: Intrinsic factor can be found in this organ, and its chief cells secrete pepsinogen. The antrum and the fundus are parts of this organ that contains folds known as rugae. Connected to the small intestine by the pyloric sphincter, what organ uses hydrochloric acid to digest food? - ttddStomach
Life Science: Answer these questions about infectious agents. What name is given to pathogens that are comprised of DNA or RNA surrounded by a protein coat? - ttddVirus
Life Science: Answer these questions about infectious agents. What phylum of photosynthetic bacteria that was formerly called "blue-green algae" caused the Great Oxygenation event more than 2 billion years ago? - ttddCyanobacteria
Life Science: Answer these questions about infectious agents. Tossup: Fatal familial insomnia is caused by a mutation in these molecules. URE3 and PSI are examples of these molecules in yeast and they are formed from a mutation in the PrP protein. These molecules were studied extensively by Stanley Prusiner, who identified their link to Kuru, scrapie, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Identify these misfolded and infectious proteins that can cause Mad Cow disease. - ttddPrions
Life Science: Answer these questions about organs in the human body. What organ system includes the small intestine and the stomach? - ttddDigestive system
Life Science: Answer these questions about organs in the human body. What organ system includes the brain and the spinal cord? - ttddNervous system
Life Science: Answer these questions about organs in the human body. Toss-Up: Copper can build up in this organ in Wilson's disease, and before the bone marrow is able to, this organ produces red blood cells. Albumin levels can be measured from this organ and the portal vein flows into it. Hepatitis affects what organ that synthesizes cholesterol and secretes bile? - ttddLiver
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. What class of biological molecules is used for energy storage and includes monosaccharides? - ttddCarbohydrates or Carbs
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. What other class of biological molecules that is also used for energy storage includes fats and steroids? - ttddLipids
Life Science: Answer these questions about biological molecules. Toss-Up: This molecule is a cofactor in the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine. This molecule hydroxylates proline and lysine to produce collagen, and Linus Pauling advocated for mega doses of it. Scurvy is caused by a deficiency of what vitamin that is also known as ascorbic acid and is found in citrus fruits? - ttddVitamin C [accept Ascorbic acid before mentioned]
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions. What skin condition sees too much oil produced by the sebaceous glands leading to clogged pores? - ttddAcne
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions. What disease of the central nervous system causes aggressiveness in animals, including foaming at the mouth? - ttddRabies
Life Science: Identify these medical conditions. Toss-Up: This disease can lead to Kussmaul breathing, and it can be tested for using hemoglobin A1C levels. Metformin is used to treat this disease that can have gestational sufferers during pregnancy. A resistance to insulin defines the type two version of what disease? - ttddDiabetes mellitus
Life Science: Identify these types of cells. Leukocytes are another name for what cells associated with the immune response? - ttddWhite blood cells
Life Science: Identify these types of cells. What undifferentiated cells can be used to produce various types of tissues? - ttddStem cells
Life Science: Identify these types of cells. Toss-Up: These cells interact with glycoprotein IIB and IIIA, and they form by budding off of megakaryocytes in the red marrow. Von Willebrand factor is contained by these cells that are bound together using fibrinogen. Also known as thrombocytes, what cells are involved in blood clotting? - ttddPlatelets [accept Thrombocytes before mentioned]
Life Science: Answer these questions about medical conditions in which sufferers have more copies of some body parts than usual. Between ten percent and thirty percent of humans have a fabella, a small extra bone embedded in the tendons of this joint. The better-known bone located at this joint, which almost all humans have, is the patella. - ttddKnee
Life Science: Answer these questions about medical conditions in which sufferers have more copies of some body parts than usual. Poly·dac·tyly is a usually-benign mutation in which a person is born with more than the usual number of these body parts. - ttddDigits [accept Fingers or Toes or both]
Life Science: Answer these questions about medical conditions in which sufferers have more copies of some body parts than usual. The most common kind of additional instances of these structures is known as a mesiodens. Parts of these structures are covered by cementum, and these structures are separated into two parts by the cemento·enamel junction. Humans have two sets of these structures, and the second set contains four more of these things than the first set, which fall out and are replaced. These structures can be covered in a biofilm known as plaque. Identify these structures in the mouth which help people chew things. - ttddTeeth
Life Science: Answer the following about extinct flying animals. This species of large flightless bird native to Mauritius went extinct less than a hundred years after the arrival of Dutch sailors on the island; its extinction in 1662 was the first time that a species was recognized to have been made extinct by humans. - ttddDodo
Life Science: Answer the following about extinct flying animals. This bird species went extinct in 1901 because of habitat destruction and overhunting; at one point, they were so numerous that their migrations could darken the sky. - ttddPassenger pigeon [prompt on "pigeon"]
Life Science: Answer the following about extinct flying animals. A large oscillation in the carbon isotope ratio during the first half of this geologic period has informed a hypothesis that the mass extinction that preceded it was caused by a "clathrate gun," while others attribute that extinction to the Siberian Traps. That mass extinction which preceded this period was the only known mass extinction of insects, killed ninety-seven percent of marine species on Earth, and is also known as the "Great Dying." A mass extinction event at the end of this period cleared ecological niches that allowed the dinosaurs to become the dominant animals, and it occurred immediately before the breakup of Pangaea. Name this geologic period which followed the Permian and preceded the Jurassic. - ttddTriassic period
Life Science: Name the following organelles. This organelle named for an Italian biologist is responsible for sorting and packaging proteins for transport to the rest of the cell. - ttddGolgi body [or apparatus, or complex]
Life Science: Name the following organelles. This organelle, which has "small" and "large" subunits, is the site of translation, a process in which RNA is used to synthesize proteins. - ttddRibosomes
Life Science: Name the following organelles. The protein cytochrome c is typically found in this organelle. The fact that this organelle has its own DNA is a strong piece of evidence for a theory which asserts that this organelle was originally a distinct class of organism before being incorporated into cells through endosymbiosis. Parts of this organelle include cristae and the intermembrane space. This organelle is the analogue of the chloroplast in animals, and ATP is synthesized inside this organelle. Identify this organelle which is the site of cellular respiration. - ttddMitochondria or Mitochondrion
Life Science: Humans are mortal. Answer some questions about things that aren't. The "immortal" variety of this type of animal is capable of reverting to a polyp stage, meaning that it does not die of old age. Other kinds of this animal include the Irukandji types, whose toxins can kill humans within minutes. - ttddJellyfish
Life Science: Humans are mortal. Answer some questions about things that aren't. These relatives of jellyfish are not known to have their mortality rate increase with age. These animals derive their name from a mythological beast to which they share a visual similarity. - ttddHydras
Life Science: Humans are mortal. Answer some questions about things that aren't. A specific variety of these cells can be transmitted between Tasmanian devils. The HeLa cell line is derived from cells of this type taken from Henrietta Lacks without her consent. Cells of this type are able to outlive their Hayflick limit because of a specific enzyme. Cells of this type typically express a higher number of oncogenes than normal. Cells of this type can spread to other locations via the blood or lymph via a process known as metastasis. Name this type of cell, the uncontrolled multiplication of which is responsible for diseases such as melanoma and lymphoma, and which forms tumors. - ttddCancer cells
Life Science: Give the following related to the cardiovascular system. The heart contains mitral and tricuspid examples of these structures, which allow blood to flow in only one direction. - ttddHeart valves
Life Science: Give the following related to the cardiovascular system. This medical technique measures electrical signals produced by the heart. Its output includes P, QRS, and T regions. - ttddElectrocardiogram [or EKG; or ECG]
Life Science: Give the following related to the cardiovascular system. It's not a cytochrome, but the presence of this compound allows for the conversion of arachidonic acid to lipoxin, a type of SPM. This compound prevents the production of prostaglandins by inhibiting the cyclooxygenase COX-2. When ingested by children, this derivative of salicylic acid can cause mitochondrial damage in Reye's syndrome. This drug, a type of NSAID, is taken during heart attacks. Name this drug that is manufactured by Bayer, which treats inflammation, fever, and pain. - ttddAspirin [or acetylsalicylic acid]