Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to roots of equations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. What are the roots of the equation f of x equals nine x-cubed minus fifteen x-squared minus thirty-six x? - ttdd0⸴ -4/3⸴ and 3 [in any order]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to roots of equations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. What are the roots of the equation g of x equals twenty-one x-cubed minus ninety-nine x-squared minus thirty x? - ttdd0⸴ -2/7⸴ and 5 [in any order]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to roots of equations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. A triangular lattice is formed in the complex plane by Eisenstein's form of these numbers⸴ and when the two parts of a complex number are of this type⸴ it is known as Gaussian. The roots of Diophantine equations belong to this set of numbers that does not form a field because they are not closed under division. The continuum hypothesis shows that there are no sets of numbers with cardinality between these numbers and the real numbers⸴ and rational numbers are made up of a quotient of them. Denoted by a boldface Z⸴ identify these numbers that consist of the natural numbers⸴ their negatives⸴ and zero. - ttddIntegers
Identify the following mathematicians. This Swiss mathematician names the identity that e to the i times pi power plus one equals zero and solved the Seven Bridges of Konigsberg problem. - ttddLeonhard Euler
Identify the following mathematicians. This German mathematician lends his name to the normal distribution⸴ and he⸴ with Jordan⸴ names an elimination method used to solve systems of linear equations. - ttddCarl Friedrich Gauss
Identify the following mathematicians. Along with Euler⸴ this mathematician names a theorem that relates perfect numbers to Mersenne primes⸴ and an array of one dimensional trees of unit height planted at the lattice points in one quadrant of a square lattice are known as his orchard. This man discussed the mathematical theory of mirrors in Catoptrics⸴ and he names an algorithm for finding the greatest common divisor. The parallel postulate is contained within this mathematician's most famous work⸴ Elements. Identify this Greek mathematician who is often considered the ˈˈFather of Geometry.ˈˈ - ttddEuclid of Alexandria
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to solids. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Please give your answers in terms of pi⸴ if necessary. What is the volume of a right circular cone with a height of 8 inches and a radius of 6 inches? - ttdd96 pi inches squared
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to solids. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Please give your answers in terms of pi⸴ if necessary. What is the volume of a rectangular pyramid with a height of 8 inches and base lengths of 4 and 6 inches? - ttdd64 inches squared
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to solids. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Please give your answers in terms of pi⸴ if necessary. The area of the faces of this solid are the subject of De Gua's Theorem⸴ and the pentachoron is a four dimensional object bounded by five cells of this shape. This solid has volume equal to one-sixth times the scalar triple product of its sides⸴ and its regular variety has a volume equal to the square root of two times the side length cubed over twelve. Generalized as a three-simplex⸴ this solid's regular form is the Platonic solid with the fewest faces. A variety of a triangular pyramid⸴ identify this regular polyhedron with four faces. - ttddTetrahedron [prompt on ˈˈtriangular pyramidˈˈ]
Answer these questions related to probability and statistics. When computing probabilities⸴ binomial coefficients from this French mathematician's triangle can be very helpful. - ttddBlaise Pascal
Answer these questions related to probability and statistics. Pascal's correspondence with this other French mathematician is considered the beginning of probability theory. This mathematician also names a ˈˈlast theoremˈˈ that concerns the statement a to the n plus b to the n equals c to the n. - ttddPierre de Fermat
Answer these questions related to probability and statistics. Evaluating the first derivative of the moment generating function at zero yields one type of this quantity⸴ and one type for an n element data set can be found by multiplying n times the reciprocal of the sum of the reciprocals of the elements. Another type can be found by taking the nth-root of the product of n elements⸴ and for the Poisson distribution⸴ this value is equal to the variance. For the binomial distribution⸴ this quantity is equal to the number of trials times the probability of success⸴ and different forms of it are denoted mu and x-bar. Identify this quantity that has an arithmetic type found by summing n elements and dividing them by n. - ttddMean [accept expected value; prompt on ˈˈaverageˈˈ; accept specific types of means]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to scalar quantities. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. What is the dot product of the vector -1⸴ 5⸴ 7 and the vector 2⸴ -4⸴ 8? - ttdd34
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to scalar quantities. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. What is the dot product of the vector 3⸴ -2⸴ 9 and the vector -1⸴ 5⸴ 6? - ttdd41
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to scalar quantities. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. This operation is utilized to find the area of polygons in the shoelace algorithm⸴ and this operation is applied to a difference in order to find the characteristic polynomial. The linear independence of a set of solutions can be shown using the Wronskian type of this operation⸴ and a ratio of two values obtained by this operation is used by Cramer's rule to solve systems of equations. Expansion by minors may be used to find this operation for large matrices. Identify this operation that is equal to ad minus bc for a two-by-two matrix. - ttddDeterminant
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to statistics. You will have 20 seconds for team questions⸴ and team questions will both utilize the following data set: 1⸴ 1⸴ 2⸴ 3⸴ 4⸴ 5⸴ 6⸴ 9⸴ 11⸴ 15⸴ 17⸴ 20. What is the value of the third quartile? - ttdd13
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to statistics. You will have 20 seconds for team questions⸴ and team questions will both utilize the following data set: 1⸴ 1⸴ 2⸴ 3⸴ 4⸴ 5⸴ 6⸴ 9⸴ 11⸴ 15⸴ 17⸴ 20. What is the value of the interquartile range? - ttdd10.5
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions related to statistics. You will have 20 seconds for team questions⸴ and team questions will both utilize the following data set: 1⸴ 1⸴ 2⸴ 3⸴ 4⸴ 5⸴ 6⸴ 9⸴ 11⸴ 15⸴ 17⸴ 20. The correlation between random variables X and Y is given by the covariance of X and Y divided by the product of this quantity for both X and Y individually. Chebyshev's inequality relates this value to the mean⸴ and this value divided by the square root of the sample size yields the standard error. For the binomial distribution⸴ this quantity equals the square root of the quantity n times p times q⸴ and for normal distributions⸴ sixty-eight percent of the data is said to be within one of this quantity of the mean. The square root of the variance⸴ this quantity is found in the denominator when calculating a z-score. Identify this measure of spread for a data set. - ttddStandard deviation
Answer these questions concerning geometry. What name is given to the line segment from the center of a regular polygon to the midpoint of a side? - ttddApothem [also accept Inradius because that is true for regular polygons]
Answer these questions concerning geometry. What name is given to the point in a triangle at which the three medians intersect? - ttddCentroid [prompt on ˈˈcenter of massˈˈ]
Answer these questions concerning geometry. This mathematician names a theorem stating that there exists a biholomorphic mapping from any non-empty simply connected open subset onto the open unit disk; that is his mapping theorem. This man developed elliptic geometry⸴ which is a subset of his namesake geometry⸴ in which his namesake manifold is studied. A hypothesis concerning the number of primes was developed by this man and concerns the location of the non-trivial zeros of his zeta function. Also naming the sums used to help approximate integrals⸴ identify this German mathematician. - ttddBernhard Riemann
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning the vertex of a parabola. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. What are the coordinates of the vertex of the parabola y equals two x-squared minus twenty x plus fifty-seven? - ttdd(5⸴ 7)
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning the vertex of a parabola. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. What are the coordinates of the vertex of the parabola y equals negative three x-squared plus eighteen x minus seventeen? - ttdd(3⸴ 10)
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning the vertex of a parabola. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. The parabola y equals three x-squared minus two hundred ninety-four x plus seven thousand two hundred sixty- seven has a vertex with x and y coordinates that belong to this set of numbers. Finding the smallest one of these numbers of spheres that could be stacked into a square pyramid is the subject of the cannonball problem⸴ and the sum of the first n of these is equal to n times the quantity n plus one times the quantity two n plus one⸴ all over six. Lagrange formulated a theorem stating that any natural number can be represented as four of these numbers⸴ and two consecutive triangular numbers will always sum to one. Yielding an integer when taken to the one-half power⸴ identify this set of numbers including four⸴ nine⸴ sixteen⸴ and twenty-five. - ttddPerfect squares or Square numbers
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning asymptotes. You will have 20 seconds for team questions and team questions will concern this function: f of x equals ten x-squared plus forty- seven x minus fifteen all over two x-squared plus five x minus three. Identify the location of any horizontal asymptotes of the graph of f of x. - ttddy = 5
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning asymptotes. You will have 20 seconds for team questions and team questions will concern this function: f of x equals ten x-squared plus forty- seven x minus fifteen all over two x-squared plus five x minus three. Identify the location of any vertical asymptotes of the graph of f of x. - ttddx = -3 and x = ½ [answers may be given in either order; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning asymptotes. You will have 20 seconds for team questions and team questions will concern this function: f of x equals ten x-squared plus forty- seven x minus fifteen all over two x-squared plus five x minus three. Apollonius of Perga showed that special kinds of these can be used to trisect an angle⸴ and the wave equation is a partial differential equation of this type. The pelekinon was the collection of these constructs created by a sundial over the course of the whole year⸴ and rectangular ones have asymptotes that are perpendicular. e to the x plus e to the negative x⸴ all over two⸴ is the definition of this type of cosine⸴ and the difference between its two foci is constant. With an eccentricity greater than one⸴ identify this conic section that has two separate branches and is exemplified by the equation y equals one over x. - ttddHyperbola [accept word forms]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning inverse functions. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. What is the inverse function of the function y equals the quantity x plus three⸴ end quantity⸴ cubed minus two? 𝟑 - ttdd𝑦 = √𝒙 + 𝟐 − 𝟑
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning inverse functions. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. What is the inverse function of the function y equals one over the quantity x plus three? 𝟏−𝟑𝒙 𝟏 - ttdd𝑦 = 𝒙 𝑂𝑅 𝑦 = 𝒙 − 𝟑
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning inverse functions. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. This function of t appears in the definition of the gamma function⸴ and this function of negative st appears within the integrand for a Laplace transform. The hyperbolic sine and cosine sum to this function that can be defined as the limit as n approaches infinity of one plus x divided by n all raised to the n power. The Taylor series for this function is x to the n over n factorial⸴ and it is a solution to the differential equation y prime equals y because this function is its own derivative. Used when discussing compounding interest continuously⸴ identify this function that is the inverse of the natural log function. - ttddExponential function or e to the x [do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈeˈˈ]
Identify the following types of functions. This type of function is also known as a one-to-one function and never maps distinct elements of its domain to the same element of its codomain. - ttddInjective function
Identify the following types of functions. This type of function is also known as an onto function and ensures that every element in Y has at least one element in X such that f of x equals y. - ttddSurjective function
Identify the following types of functions. Horner's method can be used to check the solutions to these functions that can be used to approximate continuous functions using the Stone-Weierstrass Theorem. A spline is piecewise defined by functions of this type⸴ and the eigenvalues of a matrix are equal to the roots of the characteristic type of these. Truncating a Taylor series will yield one of these functions⸴ and the nature of these function's solutions can be discussed using Descartes' Rule of Signs. Formulas for solving them do no exist past degree four. Identify these types of functions that are sums of coefficients multiplied by variables raised to integer exponents. - ttddPolynomials
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning functions. For team questions⸴ simplify the given trigonometric expression to a single term involving only one trig function. Be sure to state the argument inside the function as well; for instance⸴ tangent of three theta. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Two times the sine of five theta times the cosine of five theta - ttddSine of ten theta
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning functions. For team questions⸴ simplify the given trigonometric expression to a single term involving only one trig function. Be sure to state the argument inside the function as well; for instance⸴ tangent of three theta. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. One minus the cosine of eight theta⸴ all over two - ttddSine squared of four theta
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning functions. For team questions⸴ simplify the given trigonometric expression to a single term involving only one trig function. Be sure to state the argument inside the function as well; for instance⸴ tangent of three theta. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. This function's rising and falling types can be represented by the Pochhammer symbol⸴ and this function of a prime minus one is equal to one less than a multiple of that prime by Wilson's Theorem. This function can be approximated by n log n minus n⸴ a method named after Stirling⸴ and the gamma function is a generalization of this function to complex numbers. Appearing in the denominator of Taylor series⸴ this function is more commonly used when computing combinations and permutations. The value for this function is found by computing the product of its input and all the natural numbers less than that input. Identify this function that is represented by an exclamation point. - ttddFactorial
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning sets. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. For team questions⸴ let the sample space be the set of integers from one to ten⸴ inclusive. Define event A as picking a multiple of three and event B as picking a multiple of four. Identify all of the elements contained within the intersection of A complement and B. - ttdd{4. 8} [can be given in any order]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning sets. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. For team questions⸴ let the sample space be the set of integers from one to ten⸴ inclusive. Define event A as picking a multiple of three and event B as picking a multiple of four. Identify all of the elements contained within the intersection of A complement and B complement. - ttdd{1⸴ 2⸴ 5⸴ 7⸴ 10} [can be given in any order]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning sets. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. For team questions⸴ let the sample space be the set of integers from one to ten⸴ inclusive. Define event A as picking a multiple of three and event B as picking a multiple of four. This set of numbers is used as inputs for infinitely differentiable holomorphic functions⸴ and they can be represented in phasor form using powers of e. DeMoivre's Theorem can be used to raise numbers in this set to powers⸴ and Gaussian integers are a subset of them. Quaternions are a generalization of these numbers that can be plotted on Argand diagrams. Taking the absolute value of these numbers is known as the modulus⸴ and these numbers are solutions to quadratics with a negative discriminant. Taking the form a plus bi⸴ are what numbers consisting of a real and imaginary part? - ttddComplex numbers
Answer these questions concerning fractals. This Polish-born mathematician coined the word fractal and lends his name to a fractal that is closely related to the Julia Set. - ttddBenoit Mandelbrot
Answer these questions concerning fractals. This other Polish mathematician names three fractals - a triangle⸴ a carpet⸴ and a curve. The triangle⸴ which recursively removes equilateral triangles⸴ is generally considered to be the most famous of the three. - ttddWaclaw Sierpinski
Answer these questions concerning fractals. This mathematician names a theorem stating that the cardinality of any set A must be less than the cardinality of its power set⸴ and he proposed the first of Hilbert's twenty-three problems - the idea that no set has a cardinality between that of the integers and that of the reals. This man names a function that is known as the Devil's staircase⸴ and he used a diagonalization argument to show that the reals are uncountable. The formulator of the continuum hypothesis and founder of set theory⸴ is what German mathematician who lends his name to a fractal constructed by taking a line segment and repeatedly removing the middle third of each segment? - ttddGeorg Cantor
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning limits. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. What is the limit as x approaches five of x minus five all over the quantity square root of the quantity x plus four⸴ end quantity minus three⸴ end quantity? - ttdd6
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning limits. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. What is the limit as x approaches three of the square root of the quantity x plus six⸴ end quantity minus three all over the quantity x minus three? - ttdd1/6
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions concerning limits. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. If a function exhibits this property on a closed and bounded interval⸴ it will attain a maximum and a minimum by the extreme value theorem. If for any epsilon⸴ there exists a delta such that the difference between x and y is less than delta implies the difference between f of x and f of y is less than epsilon⸴ a function has the uniform type of this property⸴ and the Weierstrass function is everywhere differentiable but nowhere this. If the limit of f of x as x approaches c equals f of c⸴ a function has this property at c. Identify this property of functions that is contrasted with things such as asymptotes and can be shown by not having to pick up your pencil while tracing the function. - ttddContinuous [accept word forms]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions about functions. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Give all answer in radians. What is the period of the function y equals negative three times the secant of the quantity pi x plus pi all over four⸴ end quantity⸴ minus one? - ttdd8 radians
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions about functions. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Give all answer in radians. What is the period of the function y equals four times the cotangent of the quantity two pi x over three⸴ end quantity⸴ minus five? - ttdd3/2 radians or 1.5 radians
Pencil and paper ready. Answer these questions about functions. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Give all answer in radians. Integrating this function times e to the xt with respect to x will yield the moment generating function⸴ and the integral of this function over the support must always equal one. This function must be defined on the whole real line and always be greater than or equal to zero. The derivative of the cumulative distribution function yields this function that when integrated from a to b gives the probability that x lies between a and b. Identify this type of function from statistics that is associated with continuous distributions and often contrasted with the probability mass function for discrete distributions. - ttddProbability density function or PDF [do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈprobability mass functionˈˈ or ˈˈPMFˈˈ]
Answer the following questions concerning equations. Systems of equations that are linearly independent can be solved by using matrices. In order to do so⸴ the matrix will need to be put into this form⸴ in which every leading coefficient is a one and is the only nonzero entry in its column. - ttddReduced row echelon form or RREF [prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following questions concerning equations. Named after a Greek mathematician from Alexandria⸴ these equations can only have integer values as their solutions. - ttddDiophantine equations
Answer the following questions concerning equations. Lie groups can be seen as this type of manifold⸴ and this operation is well defined if and only if the Cauchy- Riemann equations are satisfied. Functions that have the complex version of this property are known as holomorphic⸴ and the entries in a Jacobian are of this type. This operation is possessed everywhere by the Weierstrass function⸴ despite being continuous nowhere⸴ and it is utilized by L'Hopital's rule to help evaluate limits. The chain rule can be used to conduct this process that finds the instantaneous rate of change of a function. Identify this property of a function that is the opposite of taking the integral. - ttddDifferentiable [accept word forms]
20 seconds for all questions. Given an algebraic equation⸴ solve the equation for x. Be sure that your answer is completely simplified⸴ if necessary. Three times the quantity x plus five⸴ end quantity⸴ equals four times the quantity two x minus three⸴ end quantity - ttddx = 27/5 or 5 ⅖ or 5.4
20 seconds for all questions. Given an algebraic equation⸴ solve the equation for x. Be sure that your answer is completely simplified⸴ if necessary. Two times the quantity x minus seven⸴ end quantity⸴ equals five times the quantity three x plus four⸴ end quantity - ttddx = -34/13 or -2 8/13
20 seconds for all questions. Given an algebraic equation⸴ solve the equation for x. Be sure that your answer is completely simplified⸴ if necessary. x times the quantity three x plus five⸴ end quantity⸴ minus four equals three x-squared plus seventeen - ttddx = 21/5 or 4 ⅕ or 4.2 Science: Identify the following cellular organelles.
20 seconds for all questions. Perform the following unit conversions. Convert seven miles to feet - ttdd36⸴960 feet
20 seconds for all questions. Perform the following unit conversions. Convert six miles to yards - ttdd10⸴560 yards
20 seconds for all questions. Perform the following unit conversions. Convert twenty-seven gallons to cups - ttdd432 cups Science: Identify these subatomic particles.
20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following radicals. The square root of two hundred forty-five - ttdd7√5
20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following radicals. The square root of one hundred ninety-two - ttdd8√3
20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following radicals. The square root of four hundred eighty-six - ttdd9√6 Science: Answer these questions about plants.
20 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial⸴ identify its greatest common factor. Fifty-four x to the fifth plus thirty-six x-cubed minus forty-two x-squared - ttdd6x2
20 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial⸴ identify its greatest common factor. Forty-five x to the eighth minus eighteen x to the sixth plus seventy-two x to the fourth - ttdd9x4
20 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial⸴ identify its greatest common factor. Eighty x to the seventh minus forty-two x to the fifth plus twenty-six - ttdd2 Science: Answer these questions about elements and the periodic table.
20 seconds for all questions. Find the volume of the solid that is described. Make sure answers are completely reduced⸴ and leave all answers in terms of pi⸴ if necessary. What is the volume of a cylinder with a height of seven inches and a radius of five inches? - ttdd175π in3
20 seconds for all questions. Find the volume of the solid that is described. Make sure answers are completely reduced⸴ and leave all answers in terms of pi⸴ if necessary. What is the volume of a sphere with a radius of six inches? - ttdd288π in3
20 seconds for all questions. Find the volume of the solid that is described. Make sure answers are completely reduced⸴ and leave all answers in terms of pi⸴ if necessary. What is the volume of a square pyramid with a base length of four inches and a height of nine inches? - ttdd48 in3 Science: Identify the following organs of the human body.
20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning triangles. Be sure that all answers are simplified completely⸴ if necessary. What is the hypotenuse of a right triangle with leg lengths of seven inches and eight inches? - ttdd√113
20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning triangles. Be sure that all answers are simplified completely⸴ if necessary. What is the hypotenuse of a right triangle with leg lengths of eleven inches and four inches? - ttdd√137
20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning triangles. Be sure that all answers are simplified completely⸴ if necessary. If a right triangle has a hypotenuse of twenty inches and a leg length of six inches⸴ how long is its other leg? - ttdd2√91 Science: Answer these questions about the planets.
20 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following polynomials. Make sure your answer is completely simplified and that you give terms in order from the highest degree to the lowest degree. The quantity three x minus seven⸴ end quantity⸴ times the quantity two x plus five⸴ end quantity - ttdd6x2 + x - 35
20 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following polynomials. Make sure your answer is completely simplified and that you give terms in order from the highest degree to the lowest degree. The quantity four x minus five⸴ end quantity⸴ times the quantity six x plus eleven⸴ end quantity - ttdd24x2 + 14x - 55
20 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following polynomials. Make sure your answer is completely simplified and that you give terms in order from the highest degree to the lowest degree. The quantity x-squared plus seven x minus three⸴ end quantity⸴ times the quantity five x minus one⸴ end quantity - ttdd5x3 + 34x2 - 22x + 3 Science: Answer these questions about cells.
20 seconds for each question. Given two points⸴ find the distance between them. Be sure that your answer is completely simplified⸴ if necessary. What is the distance between the points negative one comma four and negative nine comma seven? - ttdd√73
20 seconds for each question. Given two points⸴ find the distance between them. Be sure that your answer is completely simplified⸴ if necessary. What is the distance between the points five comma negative three and twelve comma negative six? - ttdd√58
20 seconds for each question. Given two points⸴ find the distance between them. Be sure that your answer is completely simplified⸴ if necessary. What is the distance between the points ten comma negative five and negative two comma five? - ttdd2√61 Science: Identify the following scientists.
30 seconds for all questions. Given two points⸴ identify the equation of the line passing through them. Make sure any numbers in your equation are completely simplified⸴ and give your answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line passing through the points three comma negative seven and two comma four? - ttddy = -11x + 26
30 seconds for all questions. Given two points⸴ identify the equation of the line passing through them. Make sure any numbers in your equation are completely simplified⸴ and give your answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line passing through the points negative one comma four and negative two comma thirteen? - ttddy = -9x - 5
30 seconds for all questions. Given two points⸴ identify the equation of the line passing through them. Make sure any numbers in your equation are completely simplified⸴ and give your answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line passing through the points five comma negative six and eleven comma two? - ttddy = (4/3)x - (38/3) Science: Identify the following scientific processes.
20 seconds for all questions. Alison has a bag that she places three red marbles⸴ five green marbles⸴ and two yellow marbles into. Assuming after each draw⸴ Alison does not put the drawn marble back into the bag⸴ what is the probability of Alison drawing a yellow marble first and then a green marble? - ttdd1/9
20 seconds for all questions. Alison has a bag that she places three red marbles⸴ five green marbles⸴ and two yellow marbles into. All marbles have been placed back into the bag. Assuming after each draw⸴ Alison does not put the drawn marble back into the bag⸴ what is the probability of Alison drawing three consecutive red marbles? - ttdd1/120
20 seconds for all questions. Alison has a bag that she places three red marbles⸴ five green marbles⸴ and two yellow marbles into. All marbles have been placed back into the bag. Assuming after each draw⸴ Alison does not put the drawn marble back into the bag⸴ what is the probability of Alison not getting a green marble until the third draw? - ttdd5/36 Science: Identify these physical quantities.
20 seconds for all questions. Factor the following quadratic polynomials. Three x-squared minus fourteen x minus twenty-four - ttdd(3x + 4) (x - 6) or (x - 6) (3x + 4)
20 seconds for all questions. Factor the following quadratic polynomials. Five x-squared plus seventeen x minus forty - ttdd(5x - 8) (x + 5) or (x + 5) (5x - 8)
20 seconds for all questions. Factor the following quadratic polynomials. Eight x-squared minus two x minus forty-five - ttdd(4x + 9) (2x - 5) or (2x - 5) (4x + 9) Science: Identify the following diseases.
60 seconds for all questions. Given a system of equations in two variables⸴ solve the system. Be sure to give both the x and y value. Two x plus three y equals four and y equals six x plus eight - ttdd(-1⸴ 2) or x = -1 and y = 2
60 seconds for all questions. Given a system of equations in two variables⸴ solve the system. Be sure to give both the x and y value. Four x plus five y equals eighteen and x equals three y minus four - ttdd(2⸴ 2) or x = 2 and y = 2
60 seconds for all questions. Given a system of equations in two variables⸴ solve the system. Be sure to give both the x and y value. Six x minus seven y equals thirty-three and five x plus y equals seven - ttdd(2⸴ -3) or x = 2 and y = -3 Science: Answer the following astronomy questions.
Answer the following about matrices. This operation is not commutative on matrices. This operation can only be performed on two matrices if the first matrix has the same number of columns as the second matrix has rows⸴ and the result of performing this operation on an a-by-b and a b-by-c matrix is an a-by-c matrix. - ttddMultiplication [or equivalents like product]
Answer the following about matrices. For two-by-two matrices⸴ this quantity is equal to the product of the top left and lower right entries⸴ minus the product of the top right and lower left. In general⸴ this quantity can be calculated with expansion by minors. - ttddDeterminant
Answer the following about matrices. A group described by the word ˈˈgeneralˈˈ and this adjective consists of invertible matrices under multiplication. A function on a vector space which can be represented by a matrix is said to be this kind of transformation. The field of math which studies matrices is known as this kind of algebra. This property is held by continuous functions which satisfy Cauchy's functional equations⸴ meaning that ˈˈfˈˈ of ˈˈaˈˈ plus ˈˈfˈˈ of ˈˈbˈˈ equals ˈˈfˈˈ of ˈˈaˈˈ plus ˈˈbˈˈ. Non-constant functions of this type always have exactly one zero. Equations for graphs of this type can be expressed in point-slope or slope- intercept form. Identify this adjective⸴ which describes functions with constant slope. - ttddLinear [accept lines]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer some questions about quadrilaterals. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. QUIZ [spell out when reading] is a quadrilateral. The length of segment QI is 10⸴ the length of segment UZ is 12⸴ and those two segments are perpendicular. What is the area of QUIZ? - ttdd60 [half the product of the diagonals]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer some questions about quadrilaterals. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. BOWL [spell out when reading] is a trapezoid with side BO parallel to side WL. The height of the trapezoid is 12. Segment BO has length 7⸴ segment OW has length 20⸴ and segment LB has length 13. What is the length of segment WL? - ttdd28 [5 + 7 + 16]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer some questions about quadrilaterals. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. The area of quadrilaterals inscribed in these shapes can be computed using Brahmagupta's formula. A quadrilateral can be inscribed in this type of shape if and only if the four perpendicular bisectors meet at one point. Ptolemy's theorem relates the lengths of the sides and diagonals of a quadrilateral which can be inscribed in this type of shape. The ˈˈpower-of-a-pointˈˈ theorem relates the lengths of line segments which intersect these shapes. It is impossible to construct a square with the same area as one of these shapes because pi is transcendental. These shapes consist of the set of points equidistant from the center. Name these shapes whose area is equal to pi times their radius squared. - ttddCircles [do not accept or prompt on other types of curves]
Answer the following about impossible things. The Abel-Ruffini theorem guarantees that there's no general formula for solving these types of equations of degree five or more. Quadratic and cubic equations are specific kinds of these equations. - ttddPolynomials
Answer the following about impossible things. It is impossible to trisect a given angle using a straightedge and this other geometric tool which permits drawing circles with an arbitrary center and radius. - ttddCompass
Answer the following about impossible things. The Lebesgue form of this mathematical operation allows it to be generalized to sets which are not intervals⸴ something that was previously impossible. This mathematical operation is formally computed by taking a series of tagged partitions which increase in fineness; that definition is named for Riemann⸴ who also names a common method of approximating this mathematical operation using rectangles. This operation is the opposite of differentiation⸴ according to the fundamental theorem of calculus. Identify this operation which gives the area under a curve. - ttddIntegration [accept Integral⸴ prompt on ˈˈarea under a curveˈˈ or ˈˈantidifferentiationˈˈ or ˈˈantiderivativeˈˈ]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions about combinatorics. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The North High School quiz bowl club has eight students⸴ three of whom know science. How many ways are there to choose a four-person team from these eight students⸴ provided that exactly one of the members of the team must know science? The order of the team members doesn't matter. - ttdd30
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions about combinatorics. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The South High School quiz bowl club⸴ meanwhile⸴ has ten students⸴ four of whom know literature. How many ways are there to choose a four-person team from these ten students⸴ provided that exactly one of the members of the team must know literature? Again⸴ the order of team members doesn't matter. - ttdd80
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions about combinatorics. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. If order doesn't matter⸴ the number of ways to choose two people from a group of this many people is sixty-six. The regular polyhedron with this many sides has thirty edges and twenty vertices⸴ and it is the only regular polyhedron with pentagonal faces. This number of degrees is equal to pi over fifteen radians. This is the number of ways to choose an outfit if you have four different pairs of pants and three different shirts. Give the number of sides that a dodecagon has. - ttdd12
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning angles. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. If angle A measures three x plus seven degrees⸴ angle B measures five x plus eleven degrees⸴ and angles A and B are complementary angles⸴ what is the measure of the smaller angle? - ttdd34 degrees
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning angles. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. If angle A measures four x plus eight degrees⸴ angle B measures six x plus twenty-two degrees⸴ and angles A and B form a linear pair⸴ what is the measure of the smaller angle? - ttdd68 degrees
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning angles. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. One of these objects has been shown to paradoxically topologically evert into itself by Stephen Smale⸴ and simply connected closed three-manifolds are always homeomorphic to one of these objects by the Poincare conjecture. Pi times the square root of two all over three is the densest packing of these objects⸴ and triangles on them have angles summing to greater than one hundred eighty degrees. Great circles are analogous to lines on these objects⸴ and the coordinate system named after them contains the azimuthal angle⸴ the polar angle⸴ and the distance. With a volume equal to four-thirds pi radius cubed⸴ identify these solids that are the three-dimensional analogue of the circle. - ttddSpheres
Answer some questions about conic sections. The graph of y equals one over x is an example of one of these conic sections. - ttddHyperbola
Answer some questions about conic sections. This type of conic section is equivalent to an ellipse with one focus at infinity. - ttddParabola
Answer some questions about conic sections. Archimedes proved that the area under a parabolic segment is equal to this quantity times the base length times the height of the segment. The sum of the series one plus a half minus a fourth and so on is this rational number. The volume of a hemisphere with radius one is equal to this quantity times pi. This number is equal to the power to which you must raise eight to get an answer of four. When rolling a standard six-sided die⸴ this is the probability of rolling a number which is not divisible by three. Identify this rational number equal to a half plus a sixth. - ttdd2/3
Paper and pencil ready. Answer the following questions about divisibility. You will have 30 seconds on team questions. Suppose you multiply together four consecutive odd integers. What is the largest number by which the result must be divisible⸴ no matter which integers you multiplied together? - ttdd105
Paper and pencil ready. Answer the following questions about divisibility. You will have 30 seconds on team questions. Suppose you multiply together four consecutive positive integers. What is the largest number by which the result must be divisible⸴ no matter which integers you multiplied together? - ttdd24
Paper and pencil ready. Answer the following questions about divisibility. You will have 30 seconds on team questions. This mathematician names a theorem which ensures that a prime number can be expressed as the sum of two perfect squares if and only if it is one more than a multiple of four. A theorem named for this mathematician states that for any number n and prime number p⸴ n raised to the power of p⸴ all minus n⸴ must be divisible by p. That theorem⸴ which is a special case of Euler's theorem⸴ is often called this mathematician's ˈˈlittle theorem.ˈˈ This mathematician's best-known theorem was proved by Andrew Wiles in 1995. That theorem named for this mathematician states that the higher-power analogue of Pythagorean triples cannot exist. Name this French mathematician known for his ˈˈlast theorem.ˈˈ - ttddPierre de Fermat
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning functions. You will have 60 seconds for team questions. Be sure to completely expand any expressions. If f of x equals x plus two and g of x equals x to the fourth power⸴ what is g of f of f of x? - ttddg(f(f(x))) = x4 + 16x3 + 96x2 + 256x + 256
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning functions. You will have 60 seconds for team questions. Be sure to completely expand any expressions. If f of x equals two x plus three and g of x equals x to the fourth power⸴ what is g of f of x? - ttddg(f(x)) = 16x4 + 96x3 + 216x2 + 216x + 81
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning functions. You will have 60 seconds for team questions. Be sure to completely expand any expressions. This mathematician's function puts out the values zero⸴ one⸴ or negative one based on whether the input has a squared prime factor⸴ an even number of prime factors⸴ or an odd number of prime factors⸴ respectively. Transformations in the complex plane of the form quantity az plus b over the quantity cz plus d are named after this man⸴ and when his namesake object is repeatedly divided up⸴ paradromic rings will result. If two of those objects are put together⸴ a Klein bottle results. Identify this German mathematician who names the simplest non-orientable surface⸴ his namesake strip. - ttddAugust Mobius [accept Mobius strip]
Answer the following about the factorial function. The factorial function can be generalized to the complex numbers by a function named for this Greek letter⸴ which is equal to the factorial function at positive integers but with its argument shifted by one. - ttddGamma
Answer the following about the factorial function. The additive analog of the factorial numbers are this class of numbers equal to the sum of the first n positive integers. - ttddTriangular numbers
Answer the following about the factorial function. Stirling's approximation for the value of n factorial for some integer n includes a term in which the fraction n over this number is raised to the nth power. The function f of x equals the xth root of x has a maximum when x equals this number. The sum of the reciprocals of the factorials of all the positive integers is equal to this number. When this number is raised to the power of i times x⸴ the result is cosine of x plus i times the sine of x; a special case of that formula states that this number raised to the power of i times pi is equal to negative one. Identify this number⸴ which is the base of the natural logarithm. - ttdde [or Euler's number]
Answer some questions about a certain fractal. This shape is formed by taking an equilateral triangle and iteratively dividing it into four equilateral triangles⸴ removing the center triangle⸴ dividing the remaining triangles into four⸴ and repeating the process. - ttddSierpiński triangle
Answer some questions about a certain fractal. Coloring the odd numbers in this object black creates a pattern which approaches a Sierpiński triangle as you draw more rows. This structure has the number one at both ends of every row. - ttddPascal's triangle
Answer some questions about a certain fractal. The graph describing the transitions between different states possible in this puzzle is the same as the graph in which triangles in a Sierpiński triangle approximation are treated as nodes and connected if they share a corner. One solution to this puzzle encodes states as binary numbers in which a one represents that two pieces are in a different location⸴ while another solution is recursive and moves the smallest piece on every other move. The number of moves required to solve this puzzle is equal to two the power of the number of disks minus one. Identify this puzzle in which a set of disks of increasing size must be moved between two of three pegs. - ttddTowers of Hanoi
Answer some questions about surfaces. This type of surface can be produced by taking a length of paper⸴ twisting it once⸴ and joining the ends. It has only one edge and one side. - ttddMöbius strip [or equivalents like ˈˈbandˈˈ for ˈˈstripˈˈ]
Answer some questions about surfaces. This type of surface can be produced by gluing both pairs of opposite sides of a rectangle to each other in parallel. It can also be generated by rotating a circle about a coplanar axis outside the circle. - ttddTorus [prompt on ˈˈdonutˈˈ]
Answer some questions about surfaces. This surface provides the only counterexample to the Heawood conjecture because its chromatic number is six rather than seven. This surface is non-orientable⸴ and it is the connected sum of two projective planes. This type of surface can be produced by taking a rectangle and gluing one pair of opposite sides parallel and the other twisted once. This type of surface is equivalent to two Möbius strips joined at their edge. This surface cannot be represented in three-dimensional space without self-intersecting⸴ and despite being closed⸴ it has no inside or outside. Name this topological surface named for its visual resemblance to a drinking vessel⸴ and a German mathematician. - ttddKlein bottle
Answer these questions about mathematics in ancient Babylon. Babylonian documents were kept in a number system based around this highly divisible number⸴ which is equal to the least common multiple of the first six positive integers. - ttdd60
Answer these questions about mathematics in ancient Babylon. Babylonians kept extensive tables of reciprocals of numbers whose prime factors were exclusively two⸴ three⸴ and five⸴ because such numbers' reciprocals have this property in base sixty. Numbers that lack this property in base ten are often written using a bar over one or more digits. - ttddTheir decimal expansion terminates [accept any logical equivalents]
Answer these questions about mathematics in ancient Babylon. Numbers whose only prime factors are two⸴ three⸴ and five are referred to using this adjective when studying Babylonian mathematics⸴ and this adjective is used more generally to describe numbers whose decimal expansion terminates. A function is said to have this property if it is analytic and single-valued. Dihedral groups describe the symmetries of polygons with this property. Plato names a set of solids also frequently described using this adjective. Identify this property held by polygons all of whose sides and angles are equal. - ttddRegular
Answer these questions about the mathematics of computer algorithms. Some problems that are solved with computer algorithms are divided into NP and P classes. The P stands for this type of function⸴ because P problems can be solved in an amount of time equal to this type of function of the input size. - ttddPolynomial
Answer these questions about the mathematics of computer algorithms. An example of a problem which is NP is this one⸴ in which the goal is to visit all of the nodes on a graph while going the shortest distance. It is used to model situations such as the optimal road tour of several destinations. - ttddTravelling salesman problem
Answer these questions about the mathematics of computer algorithms. One algorithm for achieving this task eliminates the problem of ˈˈturtlesˈˈ present in a similar algorithm by approaching the task bidirectionally; that algorithm is the ˈˈcocktail shakerˈˈ one. Bill Gates's only published mathematical paper concerned a version of this task on pancakes. One algorithm for performing this task divides the input space into successively smaller groups⸴ performs the task on the small groups⸴ and then merges them back together while performing the task on the merged groups. Identify this procedure which can be carried out by ˈˈquick⸴ˈˈ ˈˈheap⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈbubbleˈˈ algorithms⸴ in which a group of elements are placed in the correct order. - ttddSorting
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning probability. For team questions⸴ you will have 60 seconds. Give all answers as fractions in simplest form. Given a standard fifty-two card deck⸴ you draw three cards. One of them is a king⸴ and the other two cards are not kings. What is the probability that if you draw two more cards that they will both be kings? - ttdd1/392
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning probability. For team questions⸴ you will have 60 seconds. Give all answers as fractions in simplest form. All cards have been placed back into the deck. You draw three cards⸴ and all of the cards are diamonds. What is the probability that if you draw two more cards they will both be diamonds? - ttdd15/392
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning probability. For team questions⸴ you will have 60 seconds. Give all answers as fractions in simplest form. The probability that a needle when dropped will lie across a line between parallel strips of wood is known as Buffon's needle problem⸴ which was used to estimate this value⸴ and the gamma function evaluated at one-half is equal to the square root of this value. Two times this value all raised to the negative one-half power can be found in the pdf for the normal distribution⸴ and because its square root cannot be constructed⸴ the circle cannot be squared. e to the power i times this value plus one equals zero is known as Euler's identity⸴ and it is the area of the unit circle. Identify this mathematical value equal to approximately 3.14. - ttddPi
Answer some questions about analysis. Functions have this property if the inverse image of open sets under them is open. More intuitively⸴ a function has this property if you can draw its graph without lifting a pencil. - ttddContinuity [or word forms]
Answer some questions about analysis. Thomae's function has the unusual property of being continuous only at numbers with this property. All transcendental numbers have this property⸴ as do numbers like the square root of root⸴ according to a common proof by contradiction. - ttddIrrationality
Answer some questions about analysis. The Jacobian matrix generalizes this operation to multivariate functions⸴ and the gradient of a function is a vector with the elementwise instances of this operation on the function as its elements. This operation is equal to the limit of the slopes of the secant lines through some point. The chain rule can be used to perform this operation on the composition of two functions. Name this operation in calculus which represents the rate of change of a function and is the opposite of integration. - ttddDerivative [or word forms or Differentiation]
Answer the following about complex numbers. This theorem states that the product of two complex numbers z and w has a magnitude equal to the product of z and w's magnitude and an argument equal to the sum of z and w's arguments. - ttddDeMoivre's theorem
Answer the following about complex numbers. A complex number located at an angle of X from the real axis is equal to its magnitude times this function of X. - ttddCosine X plus i sine X [accept eiX or cis X]
Answer the following about complex numbers. The one-point compactification of the complex plane is one of these objects named for Riemann. When these things are punctured⸴ they can be deformed into a disk. These objects have Euler characteristic two because they are topologically equivalent to polyhedra without holes. The shortest path between two points on one of these objects is called a great circle. These objects are defined in 3-D space as the set of points for which the sum of x squared⸴ y squared⸴ and z squared equals some fixed number. Identify these objects which are generated by rotating a circle about its diameter in three-space. - ttddSpheres
60 seconds for team questions. Use the following matrices for all questions. Matrix A has top row one⸴ negative three and bottom row three⸴ six. Matrix B has top row negative one⸴ negative five and bottom row one⸴ five. Calculate A-squared. - ttddTop row -8⸴ -21 Bottom row 21⸴ 27
60 seconds for team questions. Use the following matrices for all questions. Matrix A has top row one⸴ negative three and bottom row three⸴ six. Matrix B has top row negative one⸴ negative five and bottom row one⸴ five. Calculate B-squared - ttddTop row -4⸴ -20 Bottom row 4⸴ 20
60 seconds for team questions. Use the following matrices for all questions. Matrix A has top row one⸴ negative three and bottom row three⸴ six. Matrix B has top row negative one⸴ negative five and bottom row one⸴ five. This man created a namesake method which can approximate the area under the curve of functions with the form ˈˈintegral from a to b of e raised to the quantity M multiplied by a functionˈˈ. This man names an ˈˈoperator⸴ˈˈ denoted by del⸴ which he used to study the motion of celestial objects. This mathematician names a function that is written as the integral from 0 to infinity of the product of a function and e raised to the quantity negative ˈˈsˈˈ ˈˈtˈˈ. Identify this French mathematician who is the namesake of a ˈˈtransformˈˈ used in complex functions. - ttddPierre-Simon Laplace
20 seconds for team questions. Given a trigonometric function⸴ identify its period. Leave answers in terms of pi if necessary. y equals three times the cosine of the quantity four x plus five⸴ end quantity⸴ minus one - ttddπ/2
20 seconds for team questions. Given a trigonometric function⸴ identify its period. Leave answers in terms of pi if necessary. y equals negative two times the tangent of the quantity four x plus three⸴ end quantity⸴ plus two - ttddπ/4
20 seconds for team questions. Given a trigonometric function⸴ identify its period. Leave answers in terms of pi if necessary. The cissoid of Diocles is formed when this shape is inverted around its vertex and this shape has only one associated Dandelin sphere. Simpson's Rule is a method of approximating integrals using this shape. This shape can be created by cutting a cone with a plane parallel to a straight line along its surface and can be drawn as all points equidistant from a focus and a directrix. This conic section has an eccentricity of one. Identify this conic section described by a graph of y equals x squared. - ttddParabola
30 seconds for team questions. Answer the following questions related to probability. Give answers as completely reduced fractions. There are twelve shirts in your closet⸴ six blue and six green. You randomly select one to wear on Monday and then a different one on Tuesday. What is the probability you wear blue shirts both days? - ttdd5/22
30 seconds for team questions. Answer the following questions related to probability. Give answers as completely reduced fractions. There are four nickels and eight dimes in your pocket. You randomly pick a coin out of your pocket and place it on a counter. Then you randomly pick another coin. What is the probability both coins are nickels? - ttdd1/11
30 seconds for team questions. Answer the following questions related to probability. Give answers as completely reduced fractions. They're not primes⸴ but a method of producing these numbers is called the Mersenne Twister. A seed is a number used to initialize the generation of a ˈˈpseudoˈˈ form of these numbers. Monte Carlo simulations depend upon the input of these numbers. Methods of generating these kinds of numbers include PRNGs like John von Neumann's middle square method and HRNGs like rolling a dice or flipping a coin. Identify these kinds of numbers⸴ sequences of which lack predictability or regularity. - ttddrandom numbers (accept word forms; accept pseudo-random numbers)
20 seconds for team questions. For team questions⸴ answer these questions pertaining to volume calculations. In terms of pi⸴ what is the volume of a cylinder with a height of 8 inches and a radius of 4 inches? - ttdd128 pi inches cubed (do not prompt on partial answers)
20 seconds for team questions. For team questions⸴ answer these questions pertaining to volume calculations. What is the volume of a regular square pyramid with a base area of 12 inches squared and a height of 18 inches? - ttdd72 inches cubed
20 seconds for team questions. For team questions⸴ answer these questions pertaining to volume calculations. This theorem can be utilized to discuss why it is in your best interest to switch doors in the Monty Hall problem. In 1774⸴ this theorem was expanded upon by the work of Simon Laplace. The namesake of this theorem discussed using evidence to calculate unknown information in his book An Essay towards solving a Problem in the Doctrine of Chances. Identify this mathematical theorem which relates the probability of A given B to the conditional probability of B given A. - ttddBayes Theorem
Answer the following questions about hypothesis testing in statistics. What type of error occurs when an analyst fails to reject the null hypothesis when the null hypothesis was actually false? - ttddType II (prompt on ˈˈFalse negativeˈˈ)
Answer the following questions about hypothesis testing in statistics. What name is given to the statistical quantity defined as the probability that a false null hypothesis will be rejected? This value is equal to one minus the probability of making a type II error. - ttddStatistical Power
Answer the following questions about hypothesis testing in statistics. When checking for the adequacy of a linear model⸴ residuals should have uncorrelated random variables⸴ constant variation and this property. If the p-value is greater than alpha in a Goodness of Fit test named for Shapiro-Wilk⸴ the data is considered to have this property. It's not being linear⸴ but if a series of data points form a straight line in a Probability Plot⸴ the data has this property. The student t-test assumes that the mean of a data set has this property⸴ unlike the f- or the chi-squared tests. Parametric tests can only apply to data sets with this property. Identify this property of resembling a bell curve. - ttddNormality (Accept descriptions such as ˈˈBeing Normally Distributedˈˈ)
20 seconds for team questions. Given a function⸴ identify the equations of all of its asymptotes. y equals the quantity three x plus five⸴ end quantity⸴ divided by the quantity x minus two - ttddx = 2 and y = 3
20 seconds for team questions. Given a function⸴ identify the equations of all of its asymptotes. y equals the quantity four x minus nine⸴ end quantity⸴ divided by the quantity three x minus two - ttddx = 2/3 and y = 4/3
20 seconds for team questions. Given a function⸴ identify the equations of all of its asymptotes. This mathematical construct was defined by Augustin-Louis Cauchy in terms of epsilon and delta. This word appears in the name of a theorem which argues that at a sufficiently large number of data points⸴ the true mean will be approximately equal to the sample mean. L'Hospital's [ˈˈLope - pee - towlsˈˈ] rules allows a derivative to be applied to this mathematical construct. The formal definition of the derivative states that this function is applied to the quantity f of x plus h minus f of x all over h end quantity. Identify this mathematical concept that sets a numerical boundary to which a particular function approaches. - ttddLimits (Accept Central Limit Theorem)
20 seconds for team questions. For team questions you will be asked to answer these questions about arithmetic sequences. What is the thirty-first term of the arithmetic sequence beginning 37⸴ 27⸴ 17⸴ 7...? - ttdd-263
20 seconds for team questions. For team questions you will be asked to answer these questions about arithmetic sequences. What is the thirty-first term of the arithmetic sequence beginning 6⸴ 0⸴ -6⸴ -12...? - ttdd-174
20 seconds for team questions. For team questions you will be asked to answer these questions about arithmetic sequences. One anecdote suggests that this mathematician reinvented the method of computing the arithmetic sequence from 1 to 100 as punishment in elementary school. This mathematician stated that linear equations within a matrix can be solved by converting the matrix to row-echelon form in his namesake ˈˈelimination.ˈˈ One law named for this man states that the divergence of a magnetic field is zero⸴ thus disproving the existence of magnetic monopoles. Identify this German mathematician who names the normal distribution. - ttddCarl Friedrich Gauss
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to trigonometric functions. You will have 20 seconds for each team question. Simplify⸴ as much as possible⸴ the following trigonometric expression: tan x / sec x (ˈˈtangent of x divided by secant of xˈˈ). - ttddsine of x
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to trigonometric functions. You will have 20 seconds for each team question. Simplify⸴ as much as possible⸴ the following trigonometric expression: ˈˈsin x cot xˈˈ (ˈˈsin of x times cotangent of xˈˈ). - ttddcosine of x
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to trigonometric functions. You will have 20 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. The derivative of the hyperbolic version of this trigonometric function is (ex - e-x ) / 2 (ˈˈe to the x minus e to the negative x⸴ all divided by 2ˈˈ). The Taylor series expansion of this function consists of terms in which a variable raised to an odd power is divided by the factorial of that power. The equation stating that a triangle side's length divided by this function of its opposite angle is equal for all combinations of angles and sides is known as the ˈˈlaw ofˈˈ this function. This trigonometric function is the reciprocal of the cosecant. Name this function that⸴ for a given angle in a right triangle⸴ is equal to ˈˈopposite over hypotenuse.ˈˈ - ttddsine of x
Pencil and paper ready. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Solve for x and y in the following equations: 6x + 2y = 26 (ˈˈsix x plus two y equals twenty-sixˈˈ) and 4x + 3y = 19 (ˈˈfour x plus three y equals nineteenˈˈ). - ttddx = 4 and y = 1 [accept in either order; prompt on answers that do not specify ˈˈxˈˈ or ˈˈyˈˈ]
Pencil and paper ready. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Solve for x and y in the following equations: 4x + 12y = 36 (ˈˈfour x plus twelve y equals thirty-sixˈˈ) and x + y = 5 (ˈˈx plus y equals fiveˈˈ). - ttddx =3 and y = 2 [accept in either order; prompt on answers that do not specify ˈˈxˈˈ or ˈˈyˈˈ]
Pencil and paper ready. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. This is the shape of the matrix that is generated when using Gaussian elimination to solve systems of linear equations. One of these shapes is inscribed into a circle by Thales' (THAY-leez-iz) theorem. The area of one of these shapes can be determined by halving the magnitude of the cross product of two vectors. The inequality named for these objects is proven by using the Cauchy-Schwartz (koh-SHEE shwarts) inequality and states that one of their sides must be shorter than the other two. Equilateral⸴ isosceles⸴ and scalene are the three major classifications of what three sided polygons? - ttddtriangles
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to matrices (MAY-trih-seez). You will have 30 seconds for each team question. What is the determinant of a two by two matrix whose first row consists of ˈˈ1⸴ 3ˈˈ (ˈˈone comma threeˈˈ) and whose second row is ˈˈ6⸴ 6ˈˈ (ˈˈsix comma sixˈˈ)? - ttdd-12 or negative twelve or minus twelve
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to matrices (MAY-trih-seez). You will have 30 seconds for each team question. What is the determinant of a two by two matrix whose first row consists of ˈˈ4⸴ 2ˈˈ (ˈˈfour comma twoˈˈ) and whose second row is ˈˈ5⸴ 6ˈˈ (ˈˈfive comma sixˈˈ)? - ttdd14 or fourteen
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to matrices (MAY-trih-seez). You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. Jacobi's theorem states that for odd square matrices with the ˈˈskewˈˈ type of this property⸴ its determinant is equal to zero. Generally speaking⸴ these matrices equal their own transpose. In set theory⸴ a relation has this property if for every element ˈˈBˈˈ and element ˈˈAˈˈ⸴ if ˈˈAˈˈ relates to ˈˈBˈˈ then it must be the case that ˈˈBˈˈ relates to ˈˈAˈˈ. An equivalence relation requires this property along with transitivity (trans-ih-TIV-ih-tee) and reflexivity. What is this mathematical property that in geometry refers to the ability to fold a shape onto itself? - ttddsymmetry [accept word forms⸴ such as symmetric]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to polynomials. You will have 45 seconds for each team question. Find all three zeros of the following polynomial: 2x3 + 10x2 - 28x (ˈˈtwo x cubed⸴ plus ten x squared⸴ minus twenty-eight xˈˈ). - ttddx = 0⸴ 2⸴ -7 [accept in any order; do not prompt on partial answers]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to polynomials. You will have 45 seconds for each team question. Find all three zeros of the following polynomial: 5x3 - 15x2 - 90xˈˈ (ˈˈfive x cubed⸴ plus fifteen x squared⸴ minus ninety xˈˈ). - ttddx = 0⸴ 6⸴ -3 [accept in any order; do not prompt on partial answers]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to polynomials. You will have 45 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. The factorization of polynomials is often done via Berlekamp's (BUR- luh-camps) algorithm⸴ which factors polynomials over fields with this property. Automata (uh-TOM-uh-tuh) theory often studies nondeterministic and deterministic machines that have a set of states with this property. Formally⸴ a set has this property if there doesn't exist a subset of that set with the same cardinality. This property is not possessed by the set of all primes⸴ but it is possessed by the set of all even primes. Name this property of being able to be completely enumerated⸴ whose opposite is represented with the lemniscate (LEM-nis-kayt). - ttddfinite [accept word forms such as finitude]
Answer some questions about prime numbers. What French scientist gives his name to numbers of the form 2^2^n + 1 (ˈˈtwo to the two to the n⸴ plus oneˈˈ)⸴ which he wrongly conjectured were all primes? Prime numbers also figure into his namesake ˈˈlittle theorem.ˈˈ - ttddPierre de Fermat [accept Fermat number]
Answer some questions about prime numbers. What French mathematician gives his name to primes of the form ˈˈ2^n - 1ˈˈ (ˈˈtwo to the n⸴ minus oneˈˈ)? - ttddMarin Mersenne [or Marin Mersennus; accept Mersenne primes]
Answer some questions about prime numbers. A one-to-one correspondence exists between the Mersenne (MER-senn) primes and these numbers⸴ all of which are hexagonal and triangular numbers. The Euclid-Euler (ˈˈYOUˈˈ-clid OY-lur) theorem governs the existence of these numbers⸴ which are not deficient and not abundant⸴ and which have aliquot (AL-ih-kwott) sums equal to themselves. All known examples of these numbers are even; it has not been established whether odd ones exist. Eight thousand one hundred twenty-eight⸴ four hundred ninety-six⸴ and twenty-eight are examples of these numbers⸴ whose smallest member is six. Name these numbers that equal the sum of all of their proper divisors. - ttddperfect numbers
Answer some questions about mathematical proofs. At the end of some mathematical proofs⸴ you may find these three letters⸴ representing a Latin abbreviation⸴ which indicates that the proof is over. - ttddQ.E.D. [accept quod erat demonstrandum]
Answer some questions about mathematical proofs. In this proof technique⸴ you assume that the opposite of what you are trying to prove is true⸴ then show that an absurd result occurs; thus your original statement must be true. - ttddproof by contradiction [accept indirect proof or apagogical argument or reductio ad impossibilem]
Answer some questions about mathematical proofs. This technique is demonstrably valid via the well-ordering principle. Often used to verify a summation formula⸴ many mathematicians make use of this technique's strong form⸴ so that all statements from ˈˈ1 to nˈˈ are true. This technique starts with proving a base case and then assuming that a statement at n is true; all that is needed to be done is to show that the correctness of n implies the correctness of ˈˈn + 1ˈˈ (ˈˈn plus oneˈˈ). Name this mathematical proof technique which shares its name with a type of reasoning that makes generalizations from the specific. - ttddproof by induction [accept word forms]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to permutations. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Six friends compete in an apple-picking competition at the local hootenanny and a gold⸴ silver⸴ and bronze medal are awarded to first⸴ second⸴ and third places⸴ respectively. How many possible ways can the three medals be distributed? - ttdd120
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to permutations. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. A panda bear has five different foraging spots. If he goes to a different one for morning⸴ noon⸴ twilight⸴ and dusk⸴ how many daily unique permutations does he have? - ttdd120
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to permutations. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. A permutation is made from the Fischer-Yates algorithm⸴ which requires numbers with this property as an input. Variables with this property are functions that map from the set of all outcomes to the real numbers. Markov and Weiner processes possess this property. Generating numbers with this property is actually impossible; thus the ˈˈpseudo-ˈˈ version of this property is desired instead. This property is synonymous with stochastic. Name this property of certain sequences of numbers which makes them unpredictable. - ttddrandom [accept pseudo-random numbers or random variables]
Answer the following about conic sections. By definition⸴ a conic section is formed by intersecting a cone with what other geometric object? - ttddplane [do not accept a ˈˈsquareˈˈ or other answers]
Answer the following about conic sections. The conic section defined by x2 + y2 = 0 (ˈˈx squared plus y squared equals zeroˈˈ) is described by what word that also describes a triangle whose points are collinear (KOH-lin-ee-ur)? - ttdddegenerate [accept word forms; accept degenerate triangle]
Answer the following about conic sections. This conic section gives its name to both quadrics that are doubly-ruled surfaces. This is the most eccentric conic section that was used by Apollonius [app-uh-LOH-nee-uss] of Perga to trisect an angle; Apollonius used one with an eccentricity of two. They are defined by a plane that cuts through both halves of a cone. The equation f(x) = 1/x (ˈˈf of x equals one over xˈˈ) is the simplest example of this conic section⸴ which has an undefined value at some point. Two asymptotes (ASS-im-totes) characterize what conic section with an eccentricity greater than a parabola? - ttddhyperbolas or hyperbolae
Pencil and paper ready. Name the following related to coordinate systems. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. What is the value⸴ in polar coordinates⸴ of the rectangular coordinate (4⸴4) (ˈˈfour comma fourˈˈ). Please express your ˈˈrˈˈ coordinate as a positive simplified root and your azimuthal (a-zih-MOO-thall) coordinate in degrees as a value that is positive and less than 360. - ttddr = 4 root 2 and ϕ = 45 [or r = 4 times square root of 2 and ϕ = 45; accept in either order]
Pencil and paper ready. Name the following related to coordinate systems. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. What is the value⸴ in polar coordinates⸴ of the rectangular coordinate (-10⸴10) (ˈˈnegative 10 comma 10ˈˈ). Please express your ˈˈrˈˈ coordinate as a positive simplified root and your azimuthal [a-zih-MOO-thall] coordinate in degrees as a value that is positive and less than 360. - ttddr = 10 root 2 and ϕ = 135 [or r = 10 times square root of 2 and ϕ = 135; accept in either order]
Pencil and paper ready. Name the following related to coordinate systems. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. The ˈˈharmonicsˈˈ of this coordinate system are the solutions to Laplace's (LUH-plass-iz) equation where the radial coordinates are given by Bessel (BESS-ull) functions. These coordinates are useful when longitudinal symmetry is present⸴ such as a system where water flows down a pipe or an infinite line of charge. Rho (ˈˈrowˈˈ)⸴ phi (fye)⸴ and z are the coordinates of this system⸴ where z is the height distance. Name this three-dimensional coordinate system which uses two distance coordinates and one angular coordinate⸴ and which is an alternative to the spherical coordinate system. - ttddcylindrical coordinates [accept word forms]
You will have 30 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. Answer these calculus based questions. What is the third derivative of the equation 4x4 + 3x3 + 8x2 + 9x + 2? - ttdd96x + 18
You will have 30 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. Answer these calculus based questions. What is the third derivative of the equation 6x4 + 9x3 + 7x2 + 12x + 4? - ttdd144x + 54
You will have 30 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. Answer these calculus based questions. According to Laplacian expansion⸴ this quantity can be calculated by summing or subtracting the products of cofactors. When calculating this quantity for larger entities⸴ it is often helpful to utilize the ˈˈexpansion by minors.ˈˈ The ratio of two of these quantities can solve a system of equations according to Cramer's Rule. This quantity is only defined for square matrices⸴ as calculating this quantity on a singular matrix gives a value of zero. Identify this value that for a 2- by-2 matrix is calculated as ˈˈad minus bc.ˈˈ - ttddDeterminant
For team questions⸴ you will have 20 seconds and should solve this system of equations. Please give the X and Y values. You will not be ruled correct or incorrect until you have provided both values. 2x + 3y = 7 and x + 2y = 11 - ttddx = -19 AND y = 15
For team questions⸴ you will have 20 seconds and should solve this system of equations. Please give the X and Y values. You will not be ruled correct or incorrect until you have provided both values. 6x - 4y = 9 and 3x + 5y = 15 - ttddx = 5/2 AND y = 3/2
For team questions⸴ you will have 20 seconds and should solve this system of equations. Please give the X and Y values. You will not be ruled correct or incorrect until you have provided both values. This man's namesake ˈˈorchardˈˈ consists of a series of trees that are planted within a square lattice. This thinker utilized Plato's idea that rays emerge from the human eye as the basis for his book Optics. Playfair's Axiom is an extension of a concept formulated by this thinker who also offered a proof of the Pythagorean Theorem. This thinker laid out five concepts in his best known work⸴ the last of which has become known as his ˈˈparallel postulate.ˈˈ Identify this Greek mathematician known as the ˈˈFather of Geometryˈˈ who wrote Elements. - ttddEuclid of Alexandria
Answer these questions about mathematical concepts. What concept in mathematics measures how distorted a conic section is when compared to a circle? This quantity is greater than one for a hyperbola. - ttddEccentricity
Answer these questions about mathematical concepts. The Mandelbrot set and Koch snowflake are examples of what mathematical objects which appear as self-similar figures? - ttddFractals
Answer these questions about mathematical concepts. The namesake of this object is said to have discovered it with Johann Listing in 1858⸴ though images of this object can be seen in drawings dating back to ancient Rome. This object that has a nonorientable surface has an Euler characteristic of zero. When two of these objects are joined together⸴ a Klein bottle can be formed. A German mathematician names what mathematical object that can be created by taking a piece of paper⸴ giving it a half twist⸴ and taping the ends together? - ttddMobius Strip
Teams will have 30 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. What is the secant of 2 pi over three radians? - ttdd-2
Teams will have 30 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. What is the cotangent of 3 pi over four radians? - ttdd-1
Teams will have 30 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. The continued fractional representation of this number consists only of ones. The symbol representing this number is named for the architect who designed the Statue of Zeus at Olympia. This number is approached by the ratio of successive terms in the Fibonacci sequence and it is frequently used in art and architecture. This number is the solution to the equation x squared minus x minus one equals zero. Identify this irrational number⸴ symbolized phi⸴ which equals one plus radical five over two⸴ or about 1.618. - ttddGolden Ratio (accept ˈˈphiˈˈ or ˈˈ1 plus radical 5 over 2ˈˈ before mentioned)
60 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up. For team questions⸴ answer these problems relating to travel. A cruise ship made a trip to St. Vincent and back. The trip there took six hours and the trip back took four hours. It averaged ten miles per hour faster on the return trip than on the outbound trip. Find the cruise shipˈs average speed on the outbound trip. - ttdd20 mph
60 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up. For team questions⸴ answer these problems relating to travel. A container ship traveled to dry dock and back. The trip there took five hours and the trip back took three hours. It averaged six kilometers per hour faster on the return trip than on the outbound trip. What was the container shipˈs average speed on the outbound trip? - ttdd9 km/h
60 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up. For team questions⸴ answer these problems relating to travel. These numbers can be used to define Wall-Sun-Sun primes⸴ and Zeckendorf's Theorem states any natural number can be written uniquely as a sum of non-consecutive numbers of this type. Lagrange noted that when modulo is applied to these numbers⸴ Pisano Periods can be found. The closed form of these numbers can be found through Binet's Formula. The shallow diagonals of Pascal's triangle sum to these numbers⸴ and the ratio between them approaches the golden ratio. Identify these numbers that include 1⸴ 2⸴ 3⸴ 5⸴ 8⸴ and 13. - ttddFibonacci numbers
20 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. For team questions⸴ answer these questions about polynomials with real coefficients. If a polynomial with real coefficients has roots at zero⸴ negative one⸴ and three plus five i⸴ it must be of at least what degree? - ttdd4
20 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. For team questions⸴ answer these questions about polynomials with real coefficients. If a polynomial with real coefficients has roots at two⸴ negative five⸴ two plus four i⸴ and five minus i⸴ it must be of at least what degree? - ttdd6
20 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. For team questions⸴ answer these questions about polynomials with real coefficients. This value is the subject of Richardson's Theorem⸴ and if the dot product of two vectors equals this value⸴ they are considered to be orthogonal. This is the number of values in the Von Neumann cardinal assignment⸴ and this is the cardinality of an empty set. This is the minimum number that the discriminant can equal to not give an imaginary value⸴ and this value is also the additive identity. Identify this number which⸴ along with 1⸴ makes up the binary number system. - ttddZero
20 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. If the probability of event A occurring is 20% and the probability of event B occurring is 10%⸴ what is the probability of either event occurring⸴ assuming that the two events are independent? - ttdd28% or .28
20 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. If the probability of event A occurring is 30% and the probability of event B occurring is 20%⸴ what is the probability of either event occurring⸴ assuming that the two events are independent? - ttdd44% or .44
20 seconds for team questions and 10 seconds for the toss-up question. This thinker partnered with Gerard Debreu on a paper that discussed the competitive equilibrium. This thinker discussed the concepts of ˈˈconnectednessˈˈ and ˈˈtransitivityˈˈ in his 1951 book Social Choice and Individual Values. This man's best-known theory expanded upon the concept of the Pareto efficiency and discussed the weaknesses of the ˈˈrank orderˈˈ theory. Identify this thinker who stated that no voting system can properly rank candidates in an election in his namesake ˈˈimpossibility theorem.ˈˈ - ttddKenneth Arrow
Answer these questions about very big numbers. The Ackermann function⸴ an example of what type of function⸴ has very large outputs for even small inputs⸴ because of the number of times it can call itself? Functions of this type are defined in terms of themselves. - ttddRecursive
Answer these questions about very big numbers. A function named for this type of graph is known for its extremely large outputs. This term is used to describe a graph with no cycles⸴ and it also describes a type of data structure with a ˈˈbinaryˈˈ type. - ttddTree
Answer these questions about very big numbers. The busy beaver function⸴ which grows asymptotically faster than any computable function⸴ gives the maximum number of steps taken by a certain device named for this mathematician. This mathematician co-names⸴ with Church⸴ a ˈˈthesisˈˈ about computable functions. A device named for this mathematician consists of a reader which reads an infinitely long tape divided into cells. Identify this British mathematician who invented an abstract ˈˈmachineˈˈ capable of performing any computer algorithm⸴ who is also known for breaking the German Enigma code. - ttddAlan Turing
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this round will deal with the discriminant in quadratic equations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the discriminant of the following quadratic equation: 7x2 + 11x + 4 (ˈˈseven x squared⸴ plus eleven x⸴ plus fourˈˈ). - ttdd9 or nine
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this round will deal with the discriminant in quadratic equations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the discriminant of the following quadratic equation: 8x2 + 15x + 6 (ˈˈeight x squared⸴ plus fifteen x⸴ plus sixˈˈ). - ttdd33 or thirty-three
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this round will deal with the discriminant in quadratic equations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The shape of these structures are determined by their ˈˈgeneralizedˈˈ discriminant⸴ b2 - 4ac (ˈˈB squared⸴ minus four A Cˈˈ)⸴ when using variables of their characteristic equation: Ax2 + Bxy + Cy2 + Dx + Ey + F = 0 (ˈˈA X squared⸴ plus B X Y⸴ plus C Y squared⸴ plus D X⸴ plus E Y⸴ plus F⸴ equals zeroˈˈ). Jakob Steiner names a group of these shapes that are defined over the projective plane. These shapes⸴ which are the subject of a treatise by Apollonius (APP-uh-loh-NEE-us) of Perga⸴ are defined by a locus of points from the focus⸴ as well as a fixed line called a directrix. The hyperbola⸴ parabola⸴ ellipse⸴ and circles are examples of these shapes. Name these shapes which are sometimes called ˈˈsections.ˈˈ - ttddconic sections [accept Steiner conic]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following related to slopes. The answers to the team questions must be in slope intercept form. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the equation of the line that runs through the following points: (12⸴5) (ˈˈtwelve comma fiveˈˈ) and (9⸴-4) (ˈˈnine comma negative fourˈˈ). - ttddy = 3x - 31 (ˈˈY equals three X minus thirty-oneˈˈ)
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following related to slopes. The answers to the team questions must be in slope intercept form. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the equation of the line that runs through the following points: (-16⸴3) (ˈˈnegative sixteen comma threeˈˈ) and (-6⸴8) (ˈˈnegative six comma eightˈˈ). - ttddy = 0.5x + 11 (ˈˈY equals one-half X plus elevenˈˈ or ˈˈY equals (zero) point five X plus elevenˈˈ)
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following related to slopes. The answers to the team questions must be in slope intercept form. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. When equations are expressed in slope intercept form⸴ it is quite easy to solve a system of linear equations by using this mathematician's namesake ˈˈeliminationˈˈ technique. This man basically developed clockwork arithmetic by proving his namesake ˈˈgolden theorem⸴ˈˈ which is the law of quadratic reciprocity. This man proved the fundamental theorem of algebra⸴ and before the age of ten⸴ he was able to quickly sum the numbers 1 through 100. Give this German ˈˈprince of mathematicsˈˈ who is the namesake of the normal distribution. - ttddCarl Friedrich Gauss [accept Gaussian elimination or Gaussian distribution]
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this round will deal with the cross product. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the cross product of the vectors [1⸴0⸴0] (ˈˈone⸴ zero⸴ zeroˈˈ) and [9⸴3⸴0] (ˈˈnine⸴ three⸴ zeroˈˈ). - ttdd[0⸴0⸴3] or [zero⸴ zero⸴ three]
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this round will deal with the cross product. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the cross product of the vectors [0⸴1⸴0] (ˈˈzero⸴ one⸴ zeroˈˈ) and [0⸴5⸴2] (ˈˈzero⸴ five⸴ twoˈˈ). - ttdd[2⸴0⸴0] or [two⸴ zero⸴ zero]
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this round will deal with the cross product. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The Gelfond-Schneider theorem resolved Hilbert's problem of this number⸴ which asks if ab (ˈˈa to the bˈˈ) is transcendental or algebraic. Aside from three dimensions⸴ this is the only other numbered dimension on which the cross product is defined. A theorem named after this many circles states that opposite lines drawn across those circles will intersect at one point. In 2000⸴ the Clay Mathematics Institute offered one million dollars for the solution to any one of these number of problems known as the Millennium Prize Problems. The regular polygon with this number of sides has internal angles of about 128.6 degrees that sum to 900 degrees. Give this number of sides on a heptagon. - ttddseven
Pencil and paper ready. Consider two six sided dice. You must give your answers in simplest fractional form. In particular⸴ do not use decimals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the probability of rolling the two dice such that their sums are 8. - ttdd5/36
Pencil and paper ready. Consider two six sided dice. You must give your answers in simplest fractional form. In particular⸴ do not use decimals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the probability of rolling the two dice such that their sums are 5. - ttdd1/9
Pencil and paper ready. Consider two six sided dice. You must give your answers in simplest fractional form. In particular⸴ do not use decimals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. When rolling two six-sided dice⸴ this quantity is 5.83. Formally⸴ this quantity is defined as the expected value of the square of a random variable⸴ minus the square of the expected value of the random variable; thus⸴ it is the second moment of a random variable. One of the conditions for the central limit theorem to hold is that this quantity must be finite. For the Poisson (pwah-SAWN) distribution⸴ this value equals the mean. This quantity is also the square of the standard deviation. Name this measure of how much a probability distribution is spread out. - ttddvariance
Pencil and paper ready. Consider a 3 by 3 matrix denoted by the letter capital A that has the following entries: From left to right⸴ its first row reads 4⸴ 5⸴ 6. Its second row reads 7⸴ 8⸴ 9. Its third row reads 10⸴ 11⸴ 12. You will have 45 seconds for the team questions. Give the entry of the upper left corner if you take A and multiply it by A transpose. - ttdd77 or seventy-seven
Pencil and paper ready. Consider a 3 by 3 matrix denoted by the letter capital A that has the following entries: From left to right⸴ its first row reads 4⸴ 5⸴ 6. Its second row reads 7⸴ 8⸴ 9. Its third row reads 10⸴ 11⸴ 12. You will have 45 seconds for the team questions. Give the entry of the bottom right corner if you take A and multiply it by A transpose. - ttdd365 or three hundred sixty-five
Pencil and paper ready. Consider a 3 by 3 matrix denoted by the letter capital A that has the following entries: From left to right⸴ its first row reads 4⸴ 5⸴ 6. Its second row reads 7⸴ 8⸴ 9. Its third row reads 10⸴ 11⸴ 12. You will have 45 seconds for the team questions. This kind of matrix represents a self-adjoint operator⸴ which means that this property of a matrix is the ˈˈrealˈˈ equivalent of a complex matrix that is equal to its conjugate-transpose. Multiplying a matrix by its transpose will always produce a matrix with this property⸴ whose ˈˈskewˈˈ form features negative numbers in one of its triangular components. In this type of matrix⸴ an entry in the qth (kyooth) row and rth (arth) column will always be equal to an entry in the rth (arth) row and qth (kyooth) column. Name this property of a matrix which also names a property in which a shape can be folded in half along some line. - ttddsymmetric matrix [or matrix with symmetry]
Name the following related to shapes. This kind of quadrilateral consists of two pairs of adjacent sides of equal length. These are the most general quadrilaterals in which the diagonals intersect to form right angles. - ttddkites [or deltoids]
Name the following related to shapes. This shape consists of the part of a circle that is not covered when it is partially overlapped by a second circle. - ttddcrescents
Name the following related to shapes. A tiling named for this shape in hyperbolic geometry is para·compact since it has infinite cells. All of the components of a horo·sphere have this shape. A theorem named for this shape states that a set of points ABC (ˈˈA-B-Cˈˈ) on one line⸴ and a set of points DEF (ˈˈD-E-Fˈˈ) on another line⸴ can be used to define the Pappus line⸴ which runs through this kind of shape. In this kind of shape⸴ the internal angles sum to 720 degrees. The scuttles of a turtle shell and honeycombs in beehives take the form of this two-dimensional shape. Name this shape with (*) six sides. - ttddhexagons [accept 6-gon before (*)]
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this category will deal with definite integrals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Integrate the sin(x)dx (ˈˈsine of x times D Xˈˈ) from 0 to 3π (ˈˈthree piˈˈ). - ttdd2 or two
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this category will deal with definite integrals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Integrate the sin(x)dx (ˈˈsine of x times D Xˈˈ) from -4π/3 (ˈˈnegative four pi over threeˈˈ) to 0. - ttdd-1.5 or negative one and one half [accept clear knowledge equivalents]
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this category will deal with definite integrals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. One of these mathematical statements named for Otto Holder gives a relationship between different kinds of integrals. The value of the dot product is bound by one of these statements named for Augustin Cauchy (KOH-shee) and Hermann Schwarz. That statement is used to prove one of these for triangles⸴ which states that the sum of two sides of a triangle is always larger than the third. When graphing these statements⸴ half-planes are fully covered. Name this kind of mathematical statement which uses a greater than or less than sign instead of equals. - ttddinequality or inequalities [accept Holder's inequality or Cauchy-Schwarz inequality]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to trigonometric functions. You must give your answer in simplest form. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the sine (ˈˈsignˈˈ) of ˈˈpi over 6.ˈˈ - ttdd1/2 or 0.5
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to trigonometric functions. You must give your answer in simplest form. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the cosine (COH-ˈˈsignˈˈ) of ˈˈpi over 6.ˈˈ - ttddsquare root of 3 divided by 2 [accept radical 3 over 2 or other equivalent answers]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to trigonometric functions. You must give your answer in simplest form. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The hyperbolic form of this function is equal to the natural logarithm of quantity x plus the square root of quantity x squared minus one. The derivative of this function is equal to negative one over the square root of the quantity one minus x squared; thus⸴ one can see that the sine of this function of x equals the square root of the quantity one minus x squared. This function⸴ whose domain is constricted to that in between negative one and one⸴ will output pi if the input is negative one and zero if the input is positive one. Name this function that is the (*) inverse of the cosine function. - ttddarc·cosine [accept inverse cosine before (*); do not accept or prompt on ˈˈcosineˈˈ]
Answer the following about conjectures. This conjecture states that every integer larger than 2 can be written as the sum of two primes. - ttddGoldbach's conjecture
Answer the following about conjectures. This conjecture states that there are an infinite number of pairs of prime numbers that are separated by a distance of 2. One such pair would be 41 and 43. - ttddtwin prime conjecture
Answer the following about conjectures. This statement was originally a conjecture proposed by Francis Guthrie. Alfred Kempe used chains to prove this statement⸴ but his result was shown to be incorrect nearly a decade after it was first published. Kenneth Appel and Wolfgang Haken proved this theorem with the first proof to make use of a computer to handle thousands of cases. This theorem states that contiguous regions divided up into cells will have only so many neighbors. Name this theorem which states that one only needs the namesake number of entities to assign chromatic values to a map. - ttddfour color map theorem
Questions in this category will deal with logic. If a logical statement A is of the form ˈˈp then q⸴ˈˈ this is the name given to the logical statement of the form ˈˈq then pˈˈ in relation to A. - ttddconverse [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈinverseˈˈ or ˈˈreverseˈˈ or other answers]
Questions in this category will deal with logic. If a logical statement A is of the form ˈˈp then q⸴ˈˈ this is the name given to the logical statement of the form ˈˈnot q then not pˈˈ in relation to A. - ttddcontra·positive
Questions in this category will deal with logic. In this mathematician's book The Laws of Thought⸴ he developed a system of logic that handles ˈˈuninterpretable terms.ˈˈ The Sheffer stroke is used to represent the operation of ˈˈnandˈˈ in this man's system. De Morgan's laws are used in this man's namesake system of logic⸴ in which variables are joined using conjunctions and disjunctions⸴ which are sometimes translated as ˈˈandˈˈ and ˈˈor.ˈˈ Name this 19th century English mathematician whose namesake ˈˈalgebraˈˈ deals with variables that are classified as either ˈˈtrueˈˈ or ˈˈfalse.ˈˈ - ttddGeorge Boole (bool) [accept Boolean logic or Boolean algebra]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following about sequences and series. You must give your answers in simplest fractional form. In particular⸴ do not use decimals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the sum of the infinite geometric series whose first four terms are the following: 5⸴ 5/4 (ˈˈfive fourthsˈˈ)⸴ 5/16 (ˈˈfive sixteenthsˈˈ)⸴ and 5/64 (ˈˈfive sixty-fourthsˈˈ). - ttdd20/3
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following about sequences and series. You must give your answers in simplest fractional form. In particular⸴ do not use decimals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the sum of the infinite geometric series whose first four terms are the following: 21⸴ 3⸴ 3/7 (ˈˈthree seventhsˈˈ)⸴ and 3/49 (ˈˈthree forty-ninthsˈˈ). - ttdd49/2
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following about sequences and series. You must give your answers in simplest fractional form. In particular⸴ do not use decimals. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The ˈˈquadratureˈˈ of this shape is a discussed in a treatise by Archimedes (ar-kih-MEE-deez) that shows how to sum a geometric series. Lambert's theorem states that if three tangents to one of these shapes form a triangle⸴ then this shape's focus will lie on the circumcircle of the triangle. The semi-latus rectum of this shape is given by the equation ˈˈ2A⸴ˈˈ where A is a coefficient. This conic section is generated by using a plane that is more tilted than an ellipse but less tilted than a hyperbola. Name this shape represented by a quadratic equation. - ttddparabola
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to permutations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the number of unique permutations there are of the letters in ˈˈfree⸴ˈˈ which is spelled F⸴ R⸴ E⸴ E. - ttdd12 or twelve
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to permutations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Give the number of unique permutations there are of the letters in ˈˈswiss⸴ˈˈ which is spelled S⸴ W⸴ I⸴ S⸴ S. - ttdd20 or twenty
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to permutations. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Stirling permutations are generated by using the double form of this function. A complex-valued variant of this function shifts the input down by one and is taken by integrating from zero to infinity of the function xt-1e-xdx (ˈˈx to the t minus one⸴ times e to the negative x⸴ times D Xˈˈ). That gamma function generalizes this function⸴ which is often approximated by using Stirling's approximation. This function⸴ which appears in the general formula for combinations⸴ equals 1 for an input of 0. For a positive integer x⸴ this function is carried out by taking the product of all integers between 1 and x. Name this function represented by an exclamation mark. - ttddfactorial function
Answer these conceptual questions about probability. Along with Udny Yule⸴ this British statistician gives his name to the paradox that different trends may arise when sample groups are combined or divided. - ttddEdward Hugh Simpson [accept Simpson's paradox or Yule-Simpson effect]
Answer these conceptual questions about probability. Simpson's paradox can be used to show that this kind of variable⸴ which is sometimes called a ˈˈlurking variable⸴ˈˈ influences data even though it often is not observed. - ttddconfounding variable or confounding factor [accept confounder]
Answer these conceptual questions about probability. The ˈˈquantumˈˈ variant of this problem introduces the ˈˈorthogonal option.ˈˈ In one article⸴ Daniel Kahneman discussed the endowment effect in relation to why people would choose not to accept the results of this problem. The result of this probability problem shows that although there is a 1/3 (ˈˈone in threeˈˈ) chance that a favorable outcome occurs⸴ one can improve that outcome to 1/2 (ˈˈone in twoˈˈ). According to Madame vos Savant's resolution of this problem⸴ a contestant should switch doors once the host reveals what's in a door that wasn't chosen. Name this mathematically problem named for the original host of Let's Make a Deal. - ttddMonty Hall problem
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this category will deal with binary numbers. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Consider the number 2⸴000. Assuming trailing zeros and decimal digits do not count⸴ give the number of digits needed to express the number 2⸴000 in binary. - ttdd11 or eleven
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this category will deal with binary numbers. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. Consider the number 222⸴000. Assuming trailing zeros and decimal digits do not count⸴ give the number of digits needed to express the number 222⸴000 in binary. - ttdd18 or eighteen
Pencil and paper ready. Questions in this category will deal with binary numbers. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. By ˈˈwrappingˈˈ binary code⸴ one can essentially model this problem⸴ which was first documented by Edouard Lucas. According to legend⸴ the 128 variant of this problem is currently being solved by religious monks⸴ and the world will end when they finally complete it. In this problem⸴ disks with a greater area cannot be placed on top of disks with a smaller area. This problem essentially uses three poles and asks how to move all of the disks from one pole to another pole. Name this problem in mathematics that is named for a city in Vietnam. - ttddtowers of Hanoi [accept towers of Brahma or Lucasˈ tower]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following about set theory. For team questions consider the sets A and B. Set A contains the numbers {3⸴ 4⸴ 5} (ˈˈthree⸴ four⸴ and fiveˈˈ). Set B contains the numbers {2⸴ 3⸴ 4} (ˈˈtwo⸴ three⸴ and fourˈˈ). Give the union of A and B. - ttdd{2⸴ 3⸴ 4⸴ 5} [accept answers in any order⸴ so long as they are not repeated]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following about set theory. For team questions consider the sets A and B. Set A contains the numbers {3⸴ 4⸴ 5} (ˈˈthree⸴ four⸴ and fiveˈˈ). Set B contains the numbers {2⸴ 3⸴ 4} (ˈˈtwo⸴ three⸴ and fourˈˈ). Give the intersection of A and B. - ttdd{3⸴ 4} [accept answers in any order⸴ so long as they are not repeated]
Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following about set theory. For team questions consider the sets A and B. Set A contains the numbers {3⸴ 4⸴ 5} (ˈˈthree⸴ four⸴ and fiveˈˈ). Set B contains the numbers {2⸴ 3⸴ 4} (ˈˈtwo⸴ three⸴ and fourˈˈ). Sets with this property are used to define a topological space. In the discrete topology⸴ every subset of a set has this property. This kind of ˈˈballˈˈ describes the shell that surrounds a sphere without its limit points. On the real number line⸴ intervals with infinity and negative infinity have this property. A single parenthesis indicates that an interval has this property⸴ as opposed to a square bracket; thus⸴ intervals with this property do not include their endpoints. Name this mathematical property which is the opposite of closed. - ttddopenness [accept open sets or open intervals]
Answer the following having to do with fractals. Fractals have this property⸴ which loosely means that many smaller versions of itself comprise the overall larger object. Because they exhibit this property⸴ a fractal's shape would not change if it was magnified. - ttddself-similarity
Answer the following having to do with fractals. This mathematician's namesake fractal⸴ or ˈˈsnowflake⸴ˈˈ is derived by starting with an equilateral triangle⸴ dividing each line segment into thirds⸴ and then adding more equilateral triangles that incorporate the middle portion of each line segment. - ttddHelge von Koch (ˈˈcokeˈˈ) [or Niels Fabian Helge von Koch; accept Koch snowflake]
Answer the following having to do with fractals. This mathematician's namesake ˈˈdustˈˈ is a three dimensional fractal that is formed by crossing sets which have their middle thirds removed. An argument developed by this man involves constructing a list⸴ and then changing a number from a digit in each entry in that list. He stated that there is no set with a cardinality in between that of the sets denoted by aleph zero and aleph one as part of the continuum hypothesis. He used a proof technique to show that the set of real numbers is uncountably infinite. Name this German mathematician who introduced the diagonalization argument. - ttddGeorg Cantor [accept Cantor dust or Cantor set or Cantor's diagonalization argument]
Questions in this category will deal with mathematical tools. The logarithms of John Napier inspired the formation of this device⸴ which is used to quickly perform multiplication and addition. - ttddslide rule [or slipstick]
Questions in this category will deal with mathematical tools. The slide rule is also used to find these quantities⸴ which are also found by the Newton-Raphson method. - ttddroots [accept zeroes of a function; prompt on ˈˈx-interceptˈˈ]
Questions in this category will deal with mathematical tools. The so-called ˈˈmilitaryˈˈ type of these devices are unusually square. Some types of these devices⸴ such as the 400 gon (ˈˈgoneˈˈ) type⸴ will feature a Vernier (vur-NEER) scale on them to improve the precision of measurements. The goniometer (goh-nee-AH-muh-tur) was a more complex form of this mathematical tool⸴ which often reports results in ˈˈgradians.ˈˈ The ˈˈbevelˈˈ type of these devices typically have a pivot used for more accurate measurements. These tools⸴ which are typically transparent⸴ can report results in terms of radians or degrees. Name these devices which are usually semi-circular and used to measure angles. - ttddprotractors [accept military protractors or bevel protractors]
Name these mathematicians. This mathematician names an algorithm for polynomial interpolation and introduced a formal system of logic in a 1687 book. - ttddSir Isaac Newton
Name these mathematicians. This mathematician is credited with giving the first proof showing that there are an infinite number of primes⸴ which was included as part of a treatise written around 300 BC. - ttddEuclid (YOO-klid) of Alexandria [or Eukleides]
Name these mathematicians. This man's namesake equation is the hyperbolic differential equation applied over his namesake ˈˈsphere.ˈˈ A question posed by this mathematician asks whether or not all non-trivial zeroes lie on the ˈˈcritical lineˈˈ of a certain function. Delta x times a function of x are approximations named for this mathematician; that approximation is used to divide the area under a curve into approximately rectangular regions. This man's namesake ˈˈhypothesisˈˈ is a Millennium Prize problem. Name this 19th century German mathematician whose namesake ˈˈsumsˈˈ are used when performing integration. - ttddGeorg Friedrich Bernhard Riemann (REE-mahn) [accept Riemann's differential equations or Riemann spheres or Riemann hypothesis or Riemann sums]
Answer the following about Platonic solids. This Platonic solid is the only one that is self-dual. - ttddtetra·hedron
Answer the following about Platonic solids. This Platonic solid is the dual of the octa·hedron. - ttddcube [or regular hexa·hedron]
Answer the following about Platonic solids. The proof that there are exactly five Platonic solids was given by Leonhard Euler (OY-lur)⸴ who used induction on a structure with this property. Wagner's theorem about this property casts it in terms of minors. Kuratowski's theorem states that a graph will not have this property if and only if it contains a subgraph of K sub 3⸴3 (ˈˈthree threeˈˈ) or K sub 5. A graph with this property has a genus of zero⸴ since it cannot have any volume ˈˈholesˈˈ in it. Name this property of graphs such that it can be drawn on a flat surface without edge crossings. - ttddplanarity [accept planar graph]
Answer the following related to distributions. The Weibull distribution is an example of this type of distribution which uses a probability density function instead of a probability mass function. - ttddcontinuous distribution
Answer the following related to distributions. The Weibull distribution models the ˈˈrateˈˈ of occurrence of these kind of events⸴ which sometimes happen in devices like circuits and other components. The exponential distribution is often used for modeling these events as well. - ttddfailure rate or failures
Answer the following related to distributions. The Fisher information for this distribution is n⸴ divided by p times the quantity 1 minus p. The variance for this distribution equals p⸴ times n⸴ times the quantity 1 minus p. In this distribution⸴ the aforementioned n and p variables represent the probability that an event occurs and the overall number of trials; thus⸴ this distribution gives the expected number of successes in a chain of n independent Bernoulli (ber-NOO-lee) trials. Name this distribution⸴ which also describes a theorem about expanding out the expression (a +b)n (ˈˈquantity a plus b⸴ to the n powerˈˈ). - ttddbinomial distribution
Pencil and paper ready. Compute the simplest Big O notation function given the following expressions. You will have 20 seconds for the team questions. Give the big O function of 7x2 + 5x + 10 (ˈˈseven x squared plus five x plus tenˈˈ). - ttddx2 (ˈˈx squaredˈˈ or ˈˈx to the second powerˈˈ)
Pencil and paper ready. Compute the simplest Big O notation function given the following expressions. You will have 20 seconds for the team questions. Give the big O function of 5⸴789. - ttdd1 or one
Pencil and paper ready. Compute the simplest Big O notation function given the following expressions. You will have 20 seconds for the team questions. This function times n appears in the big O formula for the function ˈˈn factorial.ˈˈ The power series expansion of this function starts with z minus 1 and features subtractive terms for all more specific terms. The prime number theorem states that x divided by this function of x is about equal to the number of primes less than x. Taking this function of n factorial is equal to the sum of this function of all the numbers from one through n. Name this function which is the inverse of exponentiation. - ttddlogarithm [accept natural logarithm or ln (ˈˈL-Nˈˈ)]
Give the following related to properties of functions. The horizontal line test is used to test for what property of functions⸴ in which the values of the codomain are never mapped to more than once. - ttddone-to-one [accept injective function or injection]
Give the following related to properties of functions. When the codomain of a function equals its range⸴ the function has this property in which the range is completely ˈˈcovered.ˈˈ - ttddonto [accept surjective function or surjection]
Give the following related to properties of functions. This property of a function is defined if and only if a function is one-to-one and onto. The conditions for this sort of property to exist are given by a theorem in differential calculus that is proven using the contraction mapping theorem. Continuous functions have this property if and only if its derivative is completely positive. For the logarithm function⸴ this property of the function is the exponential function⸴ and for x2 (ˈˈx squaredˈˈ) this kind of function is the square root of x. Name this type of function⸴ which switches the domain with its range and vice versa. - ttddinverse function [accept invertible functions]
Give the following related to distributions. What measure of central tendency⸴ which is synonymous with expected value⸴ is the first moment of a distribution? - ttddmean
Give the following related to distributions. The second moment of a distribution is what value⸴ which is defined as the square of the standard deviation? - ttddvariance
Give the following related to distributions. This distribution's mean is undefined if v is greater than 1; its variance is equal to ˈˈv / v -2ˈˈ (ˈˈv over v minus 2ˈˈ) if v is greater than 2⸴ infinity if v is between 1 and 2⸴ and undefined if v is less than 1. This distribution was first developed by William Gosset (GOSS-it)⸴ who used it while examining the chemical properties of barley at the Guinness Brewery; Gosset published this distribution in an article under the pseudonym ˈˈStudent.ˈˈ When n is less than 30⸴ this distribution is typically used in a namesake test instead of the related z-test. Name this distribution that is used to test for the null hypothesis. - ttddStudent's t distribution
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to dot products. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. What is the dot product of the two vectors that begin at the origin and end at the following points: (3⸴-3) (ˈˈthree comma negative threeˈˈ) and (9⸴2) (ˈˈnine comma twoˈˈ)? - ttdd21 or twenty-one
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to dot products. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. What is the dot product of the two vectors that begin at the origin and end at the following points: (2⸴7) (ˈˈtwo comma sevenˈˈ) and (-6⸴5) (ˈˈnegative six comma fiveˈˈ)? - ttdd23 or twenty-three
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to dot products. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. This property is possessed by vectors if the projection from one onto the other yields the zero vector; thus⸴ an analogous form of this property for polynomials exists if the inner product is equal to zero. The outer product returns an object that has this property with respect to the input⸴ and this property is possessed by two vectors if their dot product equals zero. Two lines have this property if the product of their slopes is negative one. Name this property that exists for two lines if their dihedral angle is equal to ninety degrees. - ttddorthogonality or perpendicular [accept either underlined answer]
Answer some questions about probability. What sort of function⸴ often used in probability theory⸴ gives the probability that a value will take on a value less than or equal to x. - ttddcumulative distribution function [or cdf]
Answer some questions about probability. Give the two values that all cumulative distribution functions take on at negative infinity and infinity⸴ respectively. Make sure you give the answer for negative infinity first⸴ and your answer for infinity second. - ttddzero and one or 0 and 1 [answer must be in order]
Answer some questions about probability. This adjective describes variables whose cumulative distribution functions are a series of step functions. This adjective also describes certain statistical distributions such as the geometric distribution⸴ but not the exponential. It thus describes variables defined by probability mass functions instead of probability density functions. The field of mathematics described by this word studies countable sets. The opposite of this term describes variables that can only take on values in between two specified values. Name this word⸴ this opposite of continuous. - ttdddiscrete [accept word forms; do not accept ˈˈdiscontinuousˈˈ or any such answers]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to limits. For the team questions⸴ consider the following step function (NOTE TO MODERATOR: read what follows slowly): f(x) = x (ˈˈf of x equals xˈˈ) when x is less than one; f(x) = 5 (ˈˈf of x equals fiveˈˈ) when x is greater than 1; and f(x) = 15 (ˈˈf of x equals fifteenˈˈ) at 1. What is the limit of f(x) while approaching 1 from the left? - ttdd1 or one
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to limits. For the team questions⸴ consider the following step function (NOTE TO MODERATOR: read what follows slowly): f(x) = x (ˈˈf of x equals xˈˈ) when x is less than one; f(x) = 5 (ˈˈf of x equals fiveˈˈ) when x is greater than 1; and f(x) = 15 (ˈˈf of x equals fifteenˈˈ) at 1. What is the limit of f(x) while approaching 1 from the right? - ttdd5 or five
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to limits. For the team questions⸴ consider the following step function (NOTE TO MODERATOR: read what follows slowly): f(x) = x (ˈˈf of x equals xˈˈ) when x is less than one; f(x) = 5 (ˈˈf of x equals fiveˈˈ) when x is greater than 1; and f(x) = 15 (ˈˈf of x equals fifteenˈˈ) at 1. Karl Weierstrass (VYE-err-strauss) showed⸴ in his definition of a limit⸴ that for every arbitrarily small value⸴ there exists another quantity⸴ which is represented by this letter⸴ that exists and is also greater than zero. This letter denotes a mathematical function that returns one if both inputs are equal and zero if they are different. It also names another function which returns zero at all points⸴ except for one point⸴ where it returns infinity. Those are the Kronecker (CRO-neck-er) and Dirac (dih-RAK) functions. Name this Greek letter that is also used to represent changes in quantities. - ttdddelta [accept the epsilon-delta definition of a limit.]
Pencil and paper ready. These questions will deal with set theory. For the team questions⸴ let set Q consist of {1⸴2} (ˈˈone comma twoˈˈ) and set R consist of {2⸴3} (ˈˈtwo comma threeˈˈ). What operation on the two sets would return a set consisting of {1⸴2⸴3} (ˈˈone comma two comma threeˈˈ). - ttddunion
Pencil and paper ready. These questions will deal with set theory. For the team questions⸴ let set Q consist of {1⸴2} (ˈˈone comma twoˈˈ) and set R consist of {2⸴3} (ˈˈtwo comma threeˈˈ). What operation on the two sets would return a set consisting of {2} (ˈˈtwoˈˈ). - ttddintersection
Pencil and paper ready. These questions will deal with set theory. For the team questions⸴ let set Q consist of {1⸴2} (ˈˈone comma twoˈˈ) and set R consist of {2⸴3} (ˈˈtwo comma threeˈˈ). A relation will have one type of this property if the relation on a set is transitive⸴ anti-symmetric⸴ and reflexive; that is the ˈˈpartialˈˈ variant of this property. The name big O notation has an etymology which refers to this property of a function. The branch of mathematics named for this property studies binary relations. An approximation that is merely a best guess is known as a ˈˈzeroth [this]ˈˈ approximation. For a polynomial⸴ this property is given by the power of its highest term. Give this word that⸴ in the context of evaluating an expression⸴ means that multiplication is evaluated before the ˈˈplusˈˈ operation. - ttddorder [accept word forms⸴ or extended answers⸴ such as order of operations]
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to a mathematical series. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Sum the infinite geometric series that begins with the fraction 2/3 (ˈˈtwo thirdsˈˈ) and whose second term is 4/9 (ˈˈfour ninthsˈˈ). - ttddtwo or 2
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to a mathematical series. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Sum the infinite geometric series that begins with the fraction 1/3 (ˈˈone thirdˈˈ) and whose second term is 1/12 (ˈˈone twelfthˈˈ). - ttddfour ninths or 4/9 or 0.4 repeating
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to a mathematical series. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. For a power series⸴ the largest disk that can be defined over it bounds this concept's namesake radius. A series has this property if its limit superior of the nth (enth) root of each term is less than one. That test of this property was developed by Cauchy (COH-shee) and is known as the root test. Other tests for this property include the ratio test and the integral test. All series with this property have an underlying sequence whose limit must be zero. Series with this property sum to a value that is less than infinity. Name this property of a series that is the opposite of divergence. - ttddconvergence [accept word forms]
Give the following related to a certain method for finding roots. What method of finding roots uses the iterative formula x1 = x0 - f(x)/f'(x) (ˈˈx sub one⸴ equals⸴ x sub zero⸴ minus the quantity⸴ f of x divided by f prime of xˈˈ)? - ttddNewton's method [accept Newton-Raphson method]
Give the following related to a certain method for finding roots. The quadratic convergence of Newton's method is proven using what mathematician's namesake theorem? His name is also attached to the infinite series representation of a function. - ttddBrook Taylor [accept Taylor's theorem]
Give the following related to a certain method for finding roots. As an alternative to the method of gradient descent⸴ Newton's method is often used for this general process. The application of control theory to this task often makes use of the Pontryagin (pon-tree-AY-gin) principle. Generally speaking⸴ this process involves selecting a candidate solution from the solution set of the feasible region; one such method for doing that is George Dantzig's (DAN-ziggs) linear programming method. The method of Lagrange (luh-GRAHNJ) multipliers is used to perform this process. Name this process of selecting the best value subject to a set of constraints. - ttddoptimization [accept word forms]
Give the following related to branches of mathematics. What field of mathematics studies the null space and the column space and is defined as the study of vectors that undergo the namesake type of mappings? - ttddlinear algebra [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈalgebraˈˈ]
Give the following related to branches of mathematics. The construction of real numbers and the study of poles and residues are two components of the ˈˈrealˈˈ and ˈˈcomplexˈˈ forms of what mathematical study that is based on calculus? - ttddanalysis
Give the following related to branches of mathematics. Though it isn't topology⸴ this field often makes use of the compactness theorem⸴ which gives the conditions when a set has a model; that result can be derived by invoking Gödel's (GERR-dullz) completeness theorem⸴ which establishes a link between this field of study and semantics. The first-order form of this field of study allows the use of existential and universal quantifiers over predicates⸴ but not sets. De Morgan's laws are used in this field⸴ as are truth tables⸴ which can be used to determine the output of Boolean expressions. Name this field⸴ which is the study of mathematics as it relates to reasoning. - ttddmathematical logic [accept model theory]
Number theory is the subject of the following questions. Number theory often makes use of what operation⸴ which returns the remainder when dividing the first input by the second? - ttddmodulo
Number theory is the subject of the following questions. For two numbers a and b⸴ a mod b will return a⸴ if a is less than b⸴ and ˈˈa and bˈˈ have this property⸴ which means that their greatest common factor is 1. - ttddthey are coprime [accept relatively prime⸴ do not accept or prompt on ˈˈprimeˈˈ]
Number theory is the subject of the following questions. This mathematician's namesake symbol⸴ which is a generalization of the Legendre (luh-ZHAHN-druh) symbol⸴ returns 1 if ˈˈz2 = ax2 + by2ˈˈ (ˈˈz squared⸴ equals⸴ a x squared⸴ plus b y squaredˈˈ) has a non-zero solution and -1 otherwise. He was inspired by Giuseppe Peano (joo-SEPP-ee pee-AH-no) to create a space-filling curve with Hausdorff (HOUSE- doorff) Dimension equal to 2. A vector space possessing an inner product defines his namesake spaces. One question posed by this mathematician asks if a procedure exists to always find solutions to Diophantine (DEE-uh-FAHN-teen) equations. Name this German mathematician who⸴ in 1900⸴ proposed to the International Congress of Mathematicians a list of 23 unsolved problems. - ttddDavid Hilbert
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to derivatives. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Find the fourth derivative of the following expression: 7x4 + 2x3 - x (ˈˈseven x to the fourth⸴ plus two x cubed⸴ minus xˈˈ). - ttdd168 or one hundred sixty-eight
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to derivatives. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Find the fourth derivative of the following expression: 9x4 - 4x3 + 3x2 (ˈˈnine x to the fourth⸴ minus four x cubed⸴ plus three x squaredˈˈ). - ttdd216 or two hundred sixteen
Pencil and paper ready. Give the following related to derivatives. You will have 30 seconds for each team question. Pencil and paper will not be necessary. The derivative is needed for Lewis Fry Richardson's sixth-order variant of this process in numerical analysis. In the contest of navigation⸴ an applied form of this process is dead reckoning. This is the more unreliable of two processes used in regression analysis. The most common form of this technique is a linear approximation⸴ which is often used to figure out an electrical current's strength or someone's height after x years. Name this statistical process that estimates values outside of the observation range and is contrasted with interpolation. - ttddextrapolation [accept word forms]
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Use the properties of exponents to completely simplify the following expressions. Negative five x to the fourth y to the fifth times negative four x to the negative second y cubed - ttdd20x2y8
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Use the properties of exponents to completely simplify the following expressions. Negative three x to the eighth y to the negative fourth times negative six x squared y to the sixth - ttdd18x10y2
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Use the properties of exponents to completely simplify the following expressions. Eight x to the sixth y cubed times negative seven x to the negative fifth y to the fourth - ttdd-56xy7
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, find the slope between them. Make sure all answers are in reduced form. (5, -9) and (3, 11) - ttdd-10
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, find the slope between them. Make sure all answers are in reduced form. (-7, 8) and (3, 12) - ttdd2/5
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, find the slope between them. Make sure all answers are in reduced form. (5, -14) and (-4, 13) - ttdd-3
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Solve the following equations for x. Be sure all answers are in reduced form. Two x plus eleven equals negative three x minus four - ttddx = - 3
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Solve the following equations for x. Be sure all answers are in reduced form. Seven x minus ten equals negative two x plus nine - ttddx = 19/9
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Solve the following equations for x. Be sure all answers are in reduced form. Negative thirteen x plus one equals negative ten x minus four - ttddx = 5/3
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider the following scenario, Michael has a bag of marbles. In that bag, are 4 purple marbles, 11 pink marbles, 7 green marbles, and 8 yellow marbles. Be sure to reduce all answers. [Note to reader: read the introduction twice.] What is the probability of Michael drawing a marble that is not pink? - ttdd19/30
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider the following scenario, Michael has a bag of marbles. In that bag, are 4 purple marbles, 11 pink marbles, 7 green marbles, and 8 yellow marbles. Be sure to reduce all answers. [Note to reader: read the introduction twice.] What is the probability of Michael drawing a marble that is purple or green? - ttdd11/30
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider the following scenario, Michael has a bag of marbles. In that bag, are 4 purple marbles, 11 pink marbles, 7 green marbles, and 8 yellow marbles. Be sure to reduce all answers. [Note to reader: read the introduction twice.] If Michael draws a yellow marble out of the bag and does not replace it, what is the probability of Michael drawing a yellow or green marble on his next draw? - ttdd14/29
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the sixth term of the following geometric series. Two hundred sixteen, thirty-six, six, ... - ttdd1/36
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the sixth term of the following geometric series. Twenty-five, five, one, ... - ttdd1/125
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the sixth term of the following geometric series. One forty-ninth, one seventh, one, ... - ttdd343
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. Find the derivatives of the following functions. Simplify all trigonometric functions and other functions. [Note to reader: read each question slowly and twice.] What is the derivative of twenty-one x squared plus the natural log of the quantity cosine of x end quantity? - ttdd42 x - tan x [read as forty-two x minus tangent of x, also accept negative tangent of x plus forty-two x]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. Find the derivatives of the following functions. Simplify all trigonometric functions and other functions. [Note to reader: read each question slowly and twice.] What is the derivative of the natural log of the quantity sine x end quantity minus seven x cubed? - ttddcot x - 21 x2 [read as cotangent of x minus twenty-one x squared, also accept negative twenty-one x squared plus cotangent of x]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. Find the derivatives of the following functions. Simplify all trigonometric functions and other functions. [Note to reader: read each question slowly and twice.] What is the derivative of the tangent of x minus the natural log of the quantity three x squared end quantity? - ttddsec2 x - 2/x [read as secant squared of x minus two over x, also accept negative two over x plus secant squared of x ]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. All problems refer to a standard, fifty-two card deck of cards. Simplify all solutions. Face cards include jacks, queens, and kings. What is the probability of drawing two clubs in a row without replacement? - ttdd1/17 [or 1 over seventeen]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. All problems refer to a standard, fifty-two card deck of cards. Simplify all solutions. Face cards include jacks, queens, and kings. What is the probability of drawing a black card and then any red face card without replacement? - ttdd1/17 [or 1 over seventeen]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. All problems refer to a standard, fifty-two card deck of cards. Simplify all solutions. Face cards include jacks, queens, and kings. What is the probability of drawing a club, then a diamond face card, and then a heart without replacement? - ttdd13/3400 [or thirteen over thirty four hundred]
Mathematics: Twenty seconds for the team questions; thirty seconds for the toss-up question. Find the volumes of the following solids. What is the volume of a right circular cone with a radius of three and a slant height of five? - ttdd12 pi
Mathematics: Twenty seconds for the team questions; thirty seconds for the toss-up question. Find the volumes of the following solids. What is the volume of a right circular cone with a radius of five and a slant height of thirteen? - ttdd100 pi
Mathematics: Twenty seconds for the team questions; thirty seconds for the toss-up question. Find the volumes of the following solids. Thirty seconds for this question. What is the volume of a square pyramid with a base length of twelve and a slant height of ten? - ttdd384
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. Give your answers as fractions in lowest terms. If Calvin can paint a room in three hours and Todd can paint a room in seven hours, how long will it take Calvin and Todd to paint the room together? - ttdd21/10 hours [or 2.1 hours]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. Give your answers as fractions in lowest terms. If Melissa can paint a fence in nine hours and Alice can paint a fence in two hours, how long will it take Melissa and Alice to paint the fence together? - ttdd18/11 hours
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all problems. Give your answers as fractions in lowest terms. If Alex can paint a room in two hours, Bob can paint the room in three hours, and Charles can paint the room in four hours, how long will it take the three of them to paint the room together? - ttdd12/13 hours
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. For all questions let x equal two, y equal negative three, and z equal negative one. Be sure to put all answers in simplest form. What is the value of x cubed times y squared divided by z? - ttdd-72
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. For all questions let x equal two, y equal negative three, and z equal negative one. Be sure to put all answers in simplest form. What is the value of z squared times y divided by x squared? - ttdd-3/4
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. For all questions let x equal two, y equal negative three, and z equal negative one. Be sure to put all answers in simplest form. What is the value of the quantity yz, end quantity, squared divided by x cubed? - ttdd9/8
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following polynomials. The quantity x-squared minus three times the quantity x plus five - ttddx3 + 5x2 - 3x - 15 (or equivalents)
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following polynomials. The quantity x-squared plus four times the quantity x minus seven - ttddx3 - 7x2 + 4x - 28 (or equivalents)
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following polynomials. The quantity x-cubed minus eight times the quantity x-squared minus nine - ttddx5 - 9x3 - 8x2 + 72
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all questions. Find the slope-intercept equation given the following information. What is the slope-intercept equation for the line passing through the points negative two comma negative seven and three comma three? - ttddy = 2 x - 3 [y equals two x minus three]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all questions. Find the slope-intercept equation given the following information. What is the slope-intercept equation for the line passing through the points three comma seven and four comma negative one? - ttddy = - 8 x + 31 [y equals negative eight x plus thirty-one]
Mathematics: Thirty seconds for all questions. Find the slope-intercept equation given the following information. What is the slope-intercept equation for the line passing through the point six comma four and perpendicular to the line y equals three x minus two? - ttddy = -1/3 x + 6 [y equals negative one-third x plus six]
Math: (Note to reader: Read the introduction to this question twice, as well as each of the questions. Tell the participants to be prepared to write down information.) 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, let f of x equal x-squared minus three, g of x equal three x minus five, and h of x equal six x plus seven. If your answer includes a squared quantity, be sure to expand it. - ttddTeam B: Find g of h of x.
Math: (Note to reader: Read the introduction to this question twice, as well as each of the questions. Tell the participants to be prepared to write down information.) 18x + 16 - ttddTeam A: Find h of g of x.
Math: (Note to reader: Read the introduction to this question twice, as well as each of the questions. Tell the participants to be prepared to write down information.) 18x - 23 - ttddToss-up: Find f of g of x.
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following two-digit numbers. Sixty-seven times twenty-eight - ttdd1,876
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following two-digit numbers. Fifty-three times thirty-nine - ttdd2,067
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Multiply the following two-digit numbers. Eighty-one times sixty-three - ttdd5,103
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider the following scenario: Tyler has a bag of Skittles. In that bag, are 5 purple Skittles, 9 orange Skittles, 6 green Skittles, and 10 red Skittles. Be sure to reduce all answers. (Note to reader: read the introduction twice.) What is the probability that Tyler does not draw a red Skittle? - ttdd2/3
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider the following scenario: Tyler has a bag of Skittles. In that bag, are 5 purple Skittles, 9 orange Skittles, 6 green Skittles, and 10 red Skittles. Be sure to reduce all answers. (Note to reader: read the introduction twice.) All Skittles have been placed back into the bag. What is the probability that Tyler draws a purple or orange Skittle? - ttdd7/15
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider the following scenario: Tyler has a bag of Skittles. In that bag, are 5 purple Skittles, 9 orange Skittles, 6 green Skittles, and 10 red Skittles. Be sure to reduce all answers. (Note to reader: read the introduction twice.) Toss-Up: All Skittles have been placed back into the bag. What is the probability that Tyler draws a green Skittle and then a red Skittle? - ttdd2/29
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the greatest common divisor for the two given numbers. Sixty and seventy-two - ttdd12
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the greatest common divisor for the two given numbers. Thirty-six and fifty-four - ttdd18
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the greatest common divisor for the two given numbers. Toss-Up: Sixty-five and one hundred fifty-six - ttdd13
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions involving averages. Make sure your answers are exact, meaning not rounded. Over the first six games of the season, a running back averages eighteen carries per game. Over the next four games, he averages twenty-two per game. Through ten games, how many carries is he averaging per game? - ttdd19.6 carries per game
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions involving averages. Make sure your answers are exact, meaning not rounded. Over the first three games of the season, a running back averages twenty-four carries per game. Over the next seven games, he averages nineteen per game. Through ten games, how many carries is he averaging per game? - ttdd20.5 carries per game
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions involving averages. Make sure your answers are exact, meaning not rounded. Over the first five games of the season, a running back averages fourteen carries per game. Over the next seven games, he averages twenty per game. Through twelve games, how many carries is he averaging per game? - ttdd17.5 carries per game
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Find the roots of these quadratic equations. x2 + x - 12 = 0 - ttddx = -4 and x = 3 (in either order)
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Find the roots of these quadratic equations. x2 - 7x - 18 = 0 - ttddx = 9 and x = -2 (in either order)
Math: 30 seconds for all questions. Find the roots of these quadratic equations. 3x2 - 14x - 5 = 0 - ttddx = -1/3 and x = 5 (in either order)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. (Note to reader: read the introduction twice) For all questions let a equal three, b equal negative four, and c equal negative five. Be sure to put all answers in simplest form. What is the value of the quantity ab, end quantity, squared? - ttdd144
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. (Note to reader: read the introduction twice) For all questions let a equal three, b equal negative four, and c equal negative five. Be sure to put all answers in simplest form. What is the value of the quantity bc, end quantity, squared? - ttdd400
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. (Note to reader: read the introduction twice) For all questions let a equal three, b equal negative four, and c equal negative five. Be sure to put all answers in simplest form. What is the value of a times b squared divided by c squared? - ttdd48/25 or 1 and 23/25
Math: This is a 30 second question. Solve these logarithmic equations for x. Be sure to reduce all answers. Leave answers as improper fractions. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] log base seven of four plus log base seven of x equals two - ttddx = 49/4
Math: This is a 30 second question. Solve these logarithmic equations for x. Be sure to reduce all answers. Leave answers as improper fractions. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] log base three of seven minus log base three of x equals two - ttddx = 7/9
Math: This is a 30 second question. Solve these logarithmic equations for x. Be sure to reduce all answers. Leave answers as improper fractions. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] log base eight of nine plus log base eight of negative four x equals one - ttddx = -2/9
Math: This is a 60 second question. Expand the following polynomials. The quantity x plus three, end quantity, raised to the fourth power - ttddx4 + 12x3 + 54x2 + 108x + 81
Math: This is a 60 second question. Expand the following polynomials. The quantity x plus four, end quantity, raised to the fourth power - ttddx4 + 16x3 + 96x2 + 256x + 256
Math: This is a 60 second question. Expand the following polynomials. The quantity x minus two, end quantity, raised to the fifth power - ttddx5 - 10x4 + 40x3 - 80x2 + 80x - 32
Math: This is a 60 second question; be prepared to write down information. For all these questions, let matrix A have top row 6, -2 [Read: six comma negative two.], and bottom row 4, 0 [Read: four comma zero.]. Let matrix B have top row -3, 8 [Read: negative three comma eight.], and bottom row 0, -1 [Read: zero comma negative one.]. [Note to reader: read this introduction slowly, so the students can write down the information.] Calculate the matrix AB. - ttddTop Row: -18, 50 Bottom Row: -12, 32
Math: This is a 60 second question; be prepared to write down information. For all these questions, let matrix A have top row 6, -2 [Read: six comma negative two.], and bottom row 4, 0 [Read: four comma zero.]. Let matrix B have top row -3, 8 [Read: negative three comma eight.], and bottom row 0, -1 [Read: zero comma negative one.]. [Note to reader: read this introduction slowly, so the students can write down the information.] Calculate the matrix BA. - ttddTop Row: 14, 6 Bottom Row: -4, 0
Math: This is a 60 second question; be prepared to write down information. For all these questions, let matrix A have top row 6, -2 [Read: six comma negative two.], and bottom row 4, 0 [Read: four comma zero.]. Let matrix B have top row -3, 8 [Read: negative three comma eight.], and bottom row 0, -1 [Read: zero comma negative one.]. [Note to reader: read this introduction slowly, so the students can write down the information.] Calculate the matrix B squared. - ttddTop Row: 9, -32 Bottom Row: 0, 1
Mathematics: This a 30 second question. Calculate the length of the arc of a circle given its degree measure. Simplify all answers. Leave answers in terms of pi and include the unit. What is the length of a two hundred forty degree arc of a circle with a six foot radius? - ttdd8π feet
Mathematics: This a 30 second question. Calculate the length of the arc of a circle given its degree measure. Simplify all answers. Leave answers in terms of pi and include the unit. What is the length of a two hundred ten degree arc of a circle with a twelve foot radius? - ttdd14π feet
Mathematics: This a 30 second question. Calculate the length of the arc of a circle given its degree measure. Simplify all answers. Leave answers in terms of pi and include the unit. Toss-Up: What is the length of a two hundred seventy degree arc of a circle with a nine foot radius? - ttdd(27/2)π feet (accept 13.5π feet)
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Given two points, calculate their midpoint. Four comma negative five and eight comma four - ttdd(6, -1/2)
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Given two points, calculate their midpoint. Zero comma negative seven and negative six comma negative six - ttdd(-3, ½)
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Given two points, calculate their midpoint. Toss-Up: Negative eight comma negative seven and four comma one - ttdd(-2, -3)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the discriminant for the following quadratic equations. Three x-squared plus four x plus seven equals zero - ttdd-68
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the discriminant for the following quadratic equations. Negative four x-squared minus seven x plus ten equals zero - ttdd209
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the discriminant for the following quadratic equations. Toss-Up: Negative two x-squared minus eight x minus eight equals zero - ttdd0
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the area of a sector of a circle with the given degree measure. Be sure to simplify your answers. Leave all answers in terms of pi. What is the area of a ninety degree sector of a circle with a radius of 6? - ttdd9π
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the area of a sector of a circle with the given degree measure. Be sure to simplify your answers. Leave all answers in terms of pi. What is the area of a one hundred twenty degree sector of a circle with a radius of 9? - ttdd27π
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the area of a sector of a circle with the given degree measure. Be sure to simplify your answers. Leave all answers in terms of pi. Toss-Up: What is the area of a two hundred seventy degree sector of a circle with a radius of 8? - ttdd48π
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Given two points, give the line that passes through them. Make sure all answers are in slope-intercept form. Zero comma five and negative four comma negative four - ttddy = (9/4)x + 5
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Given two points, give the line that passes through them. Make sure all answers are in slope-intercept form. Zero comma negative five and five comma three - ttddy = (8/5)x - 5
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Given two points, give the line that passes through them. Make sure all answers are in slope-intercept form. Toss-Up: Negative two comma five and negative one comma negative one - ttddy = -6x - 7
Mathematics: This is a 30 second questions. Be prepared to write down information. Solve the following absolute value equations. The absolute value of the quantity four x plus ten, end quantity equals thirty-four - ttddx = -11 and x = 6 (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second questions. Be prepared to write down information. Solve the following absolute value equations. The absolute value of the quantity three plus six x, end quantity equals fifty-seven - ttddx= -10 and x = 9 (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second questions. Be prepared to write down information. Solve the following absolute value equations. Toss-Up: The absolute value of the quantity negative five x plus six, end quantity equals nineteen - ttddx= -13/5 and x = 5 (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Factor the following quadratic polynomials with leading coefficients. Nine x-squared minus three x minus twenty - ttdd(3x - 5) (3x + 4) or (3x + 4) (3x - 5)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Factor the following quadratic polynomials with leading coefficients. Nine x-squared minus forty x plus sixteen - ttdd(x - 4) (9x - 4) or (9x - 4) (x - 4)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Factor the following quadratic polynomials with leading coefficients. Toss-Up: Four x-squared minus twenty-seven x plus eighteen - ttdd(x - 6) (4x - 3) or (4x - 3) (x - 6)
Mathematics: This is a 60 second question. Solve the following systems of equations. Be prepared to write down information. Be sure to give both the x and y values. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] Negative x minus two y equals negative nine and y equals negative seven x plus twenty-four - ttdd(3, 3) or x = 3 and y = 3
Mathematics: This is a 60 second question. Solve the following systems of equations. Be prepared to write down information. Be sure to give both the x and y values. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] y equals negative seven x plus eleven and seven x plus six y equals negative four - ttdd(2, -3) or x = 2 and y = -3
Mathematics: This is a 60 second question. Solve the following systems of equations. Be prepared to write down information. Be sure to give both the x and y values. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] Toss-Up: y equals negative three x plus eleven and negative six x plus three y equals three - ttdd(2, 5) or x = 2 and y = 5
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric functions and their signs on the Cartesian plane. In what quadrant(s) is the cotangent function negative? - ttddII and IV (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric functions and their signs on the Cartesian plane. In what quadrant(s) is the cosecant function negative? - ttddIII and IV (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric functions and their signs on the Cartesian plane. Toss-Up: In what quadrant(s) are the secant and tangent functions positive? - ttddI
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Perform the following unit conversions. Convert eight yards to inches - ttdd288 inches
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Perform the following unit conversions. Convert eleven yards to inches - ttdd396 inches
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Perform the following unit conversions. Toss-Up: Convert three miles to inches - ttdd15,840 inches
Mathematics: This is a 40 second question. Be prepared to write down information. For each question you will be asked to calculate on of the trigonometric functions of an acute angle in a right triangle given some information about the acute angle. Give your answers as fractions in lowest terms. Calculate the sine of an angle whose opposite leg has length 3 and whose adjacent leg has length 4. - ttdd3/5
Mathematics: This is a 40 second question. Be prepared to write down information. For each question you will be asked to calculate on of the trigonometric functions of an acute angle in a right triangle given some information about the acute angle. Give your answers as fractions in lowest terms. Calculate the cosine of an angle whose opposite leg has length 5 and whose adjacent leg has length 12. - ttdd12/13
Mathematics: This is a 40 second question. Be prepared to write down information. For each question you will be asked to calculate on of the trigonometric functions of an acute angle in a right triangle given some information about the acute angle. Give your answers as fractions in lowest terms. Toss-Up: Calculate the tangent of an angle whose opposite leg has length 8 and whose hypotenuse has length 17. - ttdd8/15
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Find the roots of these quadratic polynomials. x-squared plus two x minus twenty-four - ttddx = -6 and x = 4 (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Find the roots of these quadratic polynomials. x-squared minus nine x minus thirty-six - ttddx = -3 and x = 12 (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Find the roots of these quadratic polynomials. Toss-Up: x-squared plus six x minus fifty-five - ttddx = -11 and x = 5 (in any order)
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Answer these questions about angles of regular polygons. What is the measure of one interior angle of a regular octagon? - ttdd135 degrees
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Answer these questions about angles of regular polygons. What is the measure of one interior angle of a regular decagon? - ttdd144 degrees
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Answer these questions about angles of regular polygons. Toss-Up: What is the measure of one interior angle of a regular dodecagon? - ttdd150 degrees
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Answer the following questions involving averages. Make sure your answers are exact, meaning not rounded. Be prepared to write down information. Throughout the first seven games, the Ohio State Buckeyes are averaging forty-three points per game. Over the final five games, they average thirty-one points per game. How many points per game are the Buckeyes averaging on the season after twelve games? - ttdd38 points per games
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Answer the following questions involving averages. Make sure your answers are exact, meaning not rounded. Be prepared to write down information. Throughout the first four games, the Cincinnati Bearcats are averaging fifty-seven points per game. Over the final eight games, they average twenty-seven points per game. How many points per game are the Bearcats averaging on the season after twelve games? - ttdd37 points per games
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Answer the following questions involving averages. Make sure your answers are exact, meaning not rounded. Be prepared to write down information. Toss-Up: Throughout the first three games, the Youngstown State Penguins are averaging sixteen points per game. Over the final nine games, they average thirty-two points per game. How many points per game are the Penguins averaging on the season after twelve games? - ttdd28 points per games
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric identities. One plus tangent squared theta is equal to what other trigonometric function squared theta? - ttddSecant
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric identities. One plus cotangent squared theta is equal to what other trigonometric function squared theta? - ttddCosecant
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric identities. Toss-Up: The trigonometric function for the sine of two theta says that it is equal to what quantity? - ttdd2sinϴcosϴ [two sine theta cosine theta]
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Find the fifth term of the following geometric series. 1/3, -3, 9, ... - ttdd81
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Find the fifth term of the following geometric series. 256, -64, 16, ... - ttdd1
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Find the fifth term of the following geometric series. Toss-Up: -1/125, 1/25, -1/5, ... - ttdd-5
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Find the greatest common factor for each of the following pairs of algebraic expressions. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) three x squared y squared; nine x cubed y cubed (3x2y2; 9x3y3) - ttddThree x squared y squared (3x2y2)
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Find the greatest common factor for each of the following pairs of algebraic expressions. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) two x cubed y; eight x squared y squared (2x3y; 8x2y2) - ttddTwo x squared y (2x2y)
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Find the greatest common factor for each of the following pairs of algebraic expressions. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) fifteen x squared y to the fourth; ten x squared (15x2y4; 10x2) - ttddFive x squared (5x2)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. In terms of pi, find the following surface areas of solids. What is the surface area of a cylinder whose height is eight and whose diameter is ten? - ttdd130 pi
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. In terms of pi, find the following surface areas of solids. What is the surface area of a cylinder whose height is ten and whose diameter is six? - ttdd78 pi
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. In terms of pi, find the following surface areas of solids. What is the surface area of a square pyramid whose base has sides of length nine and whose slant height is five? - ttdd171
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the greatest common factor of the following polynomials. Eighty p to the fifth plus twenty p to the fourth plus seventy p cubed - ttdd10p3
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the greatest common factor of the following polynomials. Eighteen x to the fifth plus fifty-four x to the sixth plus twenty-four x to the ninth - ttdd6x5
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the greatest common factor of the following polynomials. Eight y cubed plus eight y to the fourth plus twelve y to the fifth - ttdd4y3
Math: This is a 20 second question. Factor the following polynomials. x-squared minus two x minus thirty-five - ttdd(x + 5) (x - 7) or (x - 7) (x + 5)
Math: This is a 20 second question. Factor the following polynomials. x-squared minus ten x minus twenty-four - ttdd(x + 2) (x - 12) or (x - 12) (x + 2)
Math: This is a 20 second question. Factor the following polynomials. x-squared plus x minus thirty - ttdd(x + 6) (x - 5) or (x - 5) (x + 6)
Math: This is a 20 second question. Multiply the following polynomials. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] The quantity x-squared minus three times the quantity x plus five. - ttddx3 + 5x2 - 3x - 15 [terms may be in any order]
Math: This is a 20 second question. Multiply the following polynomials. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] The quantity x-squared plus four times the quantity x minus seven. - ttddx3 - 7x2 + 4x - 28 [terms may be in any order]
Math: This is a 20 second question. Multiply the following polynomials. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] The quantity x-squared minus five times the quantity x plus six. - ttddx3 + 6x2 - 5x - 30 [terms may be in any order]
Math: Given a number, convert it to proper scientific notation. Eighteen million - ttdd1.8 x 10 7 [Read one point eight times ten to the seventh (power).]
Math: Given a number, convert it to proper scientific notation. Twenty-seven billion - ttdd2.7 x 10 10 [Read two point seven times ten to the tenth (power).]
Math: Given a number, convert it to proper scientific notation. Fifty-four trillion - ttdd5.4 x 10 13 [Read five point four times ten to the thirteenth (power).]
Math: This is a 20 second question. Use your knowledge of the unit circle to give the exact value of the following functions. Be sure that all answers are rationalized and simplified. Cosine of one hundred thirty-five degrees - ttddNegative radical two over two
Math: This is a 20 second question. Use your knowledge of the unit circle to give the exact value of the following functions. Be sure that all answers are rationalized and simplified. Sine of two hundred ten degrees - ttddNegative one-half
Math: This is a 20 second question. Use your knowledge of the unit circle to give the exact value of the following functions. Be sure that all answers are rationalized and simplified. Tangent of three hundred fifteen degrees - ttddNegative one
Math: This is a 20 second question. Given two points, identify the slope of a line that would be perpendicular to the line passing through those two points. Make sure all answers are completely reduced. Five comma negative nine and three comma eleven - ttdd1/10
Math: This is a 20 second question. Given two points, identify the slope of a line that would be perpendicular to the line passing through those two points. Make sure all answers are completely reduced. Negative seven comma eight and two comma twelve - ttdd-9/4
Math: This is a 20 second question. Given two points, identify the slope of a line that would be perpendicular to the line passing through those two points. Make sure all answers are completely reduced. Nine comma negative fourteen and negative four comma twelve - ttdd1/2
Math: This is a 30 second question. Find the following volumes. Be sure to reduce your answers. If needed, leave your answers in terms of pi. Be sure to include units. What is the volume of a cone with radius four inches and height six inches? - ttdd32π inches3
Math: This is a 30 second question. Find the following volumes. Be sure to reduce your answers. If needed, leave your answers in terms of pi. Be sure to include units. What is the volume of square pyramid with a base length of six inches and a height of nine inches? - ttdd108 inches3
Math: This is a 30 second question. Find the following volumes. Be sure to reduce your answers. If needed, leave your answers in terms of pi. Be sure to include units. What is the volume of a sphere with a radius of six inches? - ttdd288π inches3
Math: This is a 30 second question. Solve the following rate of work problems. Express your answers in terms of hours and as fractions in simplest terms. If Matt can paint the fence in eight hours, and Alex can paint the fence in six hours, how long will it take the two of them together to paint the fence? - ttdd24/7 hours
Math: This is a 30 second question. Solve the following rate of work problems. Express your answers in terms of hours and as fractions in simplest terms. If Jake can mow the lawn in three hours, and Anthony can mow the lawn in five hours, how long will it take the two of them together to mow the lawn? - ttdd15/8 hours
Math: This is a 30 second question. Solve the following rate of work problems. Express your answers in terms of hours and as fractions in simplest terms. If Michael can trim the bushes in six hours, and Brandon can trim the bushes in four hours, how long will it take the two of them together to trim the bushes? - ttdd12/5 hours
Math: This is a 30 second question. Given the equation of a parabola, find its vertex. Be sure to give your answer as an ordered pair. Three x-squared minus twelve x plus one - ttdd(2, -11) [Read two comma negative eleven.]
Math: This is a 30 second question. Given the equation of a parabola, find its vertex. Be sure to give your answer as an ordered pair. Four x-squared minus eight x plus three - ttdd(1, -1) [Read one comma negative one.]
Math: This is a 30 second question. Given the equation of a parabola, find its vertex. Be sure to give your answer as an ordered pair. Five x-squared plus ten x minus twenty - ttdd(-1, -25) [Read negative 1 comma negative twenty-five.]
Math: This is a 20 second question. Find the derivative of the following functions. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] y equals seven x to the sixth power plus three e to the x minus cos x - ttddy' = 42x5 + 3ex + sin x
Math: This is a 20 second question. Find the derivative of the following functions. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] y equals eight x to the fifth power plus the natural log of x minus sin x - ttddy' = 40x4 + (1/x) - cos x
Math: This is a 20 second question. Find the derivative of the following functions. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] y equals four x to the negative fifth plus secant x minus tan x - ttddy' = -20x-6 + sec(x)tan(x) - sec2(x)
Math: This is a 60 second question. Find the remainder for the following division problems. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] x-cubed plus fourteen x-squared plus fifty-four x plus thirty-four divided by x plus seven - ttdd-1
Math: This is a 60 second question. Find the remainder for the following division problems. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] x-cubed minus four x-squared minus thirty-five x minus sixteen divided by x plus four - ttdd-4
Math: This is a 60 second question. Find the remainder for the following division problems. [Note to reader: read each question two times.] x to the fourth minus six x-cubed plus twenty-one x plus fifteen divided by x minus five - ttdd-5
Mathematics: This is a 40 second question. Convert these binary numbers to base ten. 111000 [Read: one, one, one, zero, zero, zero.] - ttdd56
Mathematics: This is a 40 second question. Convert these binary numbers to base ten. 101110 [Read: one, zero, one, one, one, zero.] - ttdd46
Mathematics: This is a 40 second question. Convert these binary numbers to base ten. Toss-Up: 1001100 [Read: one, zero, zero, one, one, zero, zero.] - ttdd76
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Given a set of numbers, find the geometric mean. Three, eight, and nine - ttdd6
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Given a set of numbers, find the geometric mean. Two, four, and sixty-four - ttdd8
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Given a set of numbers, find the geometric mean. Toss-Up: Four, ten, and twenty-five - ttdd10
Mathematics: These are 20 second questions. Be prepared to write down information. Use the properties of exponents to completely simplify the following expressions. The quantity two x cubed y squared, end quantity times the quantity six x to the fourth y to the fifth, end quantity. - ttdd12x7y7
Mathematics: These are 20 second questions. Be prepared to write down information. Use the properties of exponents to completely simplify the following expressions. The quantity twenty-four x to the eighth y to the sixth, end quantity divided by the quantity four x squared y cubed, end quantity. - ttdd6x6y3
Mathematics: These are 20 second questions. Be prepared to write down information. Use the properties of exponents to completely simplify the following expressions. Toss-Up: The quantity five x cubed y to the fourth, end quantity, all raised to the third power. - ttdd125x9y12
Math: This is a 20 second question. Evaluate the following logarithms. log base three of eighty-one - ttdd4
Math: This is a 20 second question. Evaluate the following logarithms. log base two of one over thirty-two - ttdd-5
Math: This is a 20 second question. Evaluate the following logarithms. log base sixteen of two - ttdd1/4
Math: This is a 30 second question. [Note to reader: Please project the function at the end of this question set on the screen/board in your room just prior to reading the first question. All questions in this category will pertain to this function.] This function has a vertical asymptote at what x-value? - ttddx = -5
Math: This is a 30 second question. [Note to reader: Please project the function at the end of this question set on the screen/board in your room just prior to reading the first question. All questions in this category will pertain to this function.] This function has a horizontal asymptote at what y-value? - ttddy = 3
Math: This is a 30 second question. [Note to reader: Please project the function at the end of this question set on the screen/board in your room just prior to reading the first question. All questions in this category will pertain to this function.] This function has a hole at what x-value? - ttddx = 2
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Use your knowledge of arithmetic sequences to find the fifty-first term of each sequence. -1, 3, 7, ... - ttdd199
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Use your knowledge of arithmetic sequences to find the fifty-first term of each sequence. -2, 4, 10, ... - ttdd298
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Use your knowledge of arithmetic sequences to find the fifty-first term of each sequence. Toss-Up: -3, 4, 11, ... - ttdd347
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. For all questions, consider a standard fifty-two card deck. Let face cards be defined as the set of cards consisting of jacks, queens, and kings. Make sure all answers are given in simplest form. What is the probability of drawing a four or a spade? - ttdd4/13
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. For all questions, consider a standard fifty-two card deck. Let face cards be defined as the set of cards consisting of jacks, queens, and kings. Make sure all answers are given in simplest form. What is the probability of drawing a face card or a diamond? - ttdd11/26
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. For all questions, consider a standard fifty-two card deck. Let face cards be defined as the set of cards consisting of jacks, queens, and kings. Make sure all answers are given in simplest form. Toss-Up: What is the probability of drawing a prime number or an ace? - ttdd5/13
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. For all questions in this category, consider the right triangle DEF, where F is the right angle. If the cosine of angle D is five-thirteenths, what is the cosine of angle E? - ttdd12/13
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. For all questions in this category, consider the right triangle DEF, where F is the right angle. If the sine of angle E is seven-twenty-fifths, what is the sine of angle D? - ttdd24/25
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. For all questions in this category, consider the right triangle DEF, where F is the right angle. Toss-Up: If the tangent of angle E is four-thirds, what is the secant of angle D? - ttdd5/4
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Use the properties of logarithms to rewrite the following as a single log with no coefficients. 3 log a minus 4 log b minus 7 log c - ttddlog (a3/b4c7) [read: log of a to the third divided by b to the fourth c to the seventh]
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Use the properties of logarithms to rewrite the following as a single log with no coefficients. 8 log x minus 9 log y plus 3 log z - ttddlog (x8z3/y9) [read: log of x to the eighth z to the third divided by y to the ninth]
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Use the properties of logarithms to rewrite the following as a single log with no coefficients. Toss-Up: 5 log a minus 11 log b minus 6 log c plus 10 log d - ttddlog (a5d10/b11c6) [read: log of a to the fifth d to the tenth divided by b to the
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Convert the following from degrees to radians in terms of pi. Please give all answers as improper fractions in simplest terms rather than as mixed numbers. Four hundred ninety-five degrees - ttdd11π/4 radians
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Convert the following from degrees to radians in terms of pi. Please give all answers as improper fractions in simplest terms rather than as mixed numbers. Four hundred eighty degrees - ttdd8π/3 radians
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Convert the following from degrees to radians in terms of pi. Please give all answers as improper fractions in simplest terms rather than as mixed numbers. Toss-Up: Nine hundred ninety degrees - ttdd11π/2 radians
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the determinant for the following two-by-two matrices. Top row five, five; Bottom row five, negative four - ttdd-45
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the determinant for the following two-by-two matrices. Top row three, zero; Bottom row four, negative five - ttdd-15
Mathematics: This is a 30 second question. Calculate the determinant for the following two-by-two matrices. Toss-Up: Top row two, four; Bottom row five, negative one - ttdd-22
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Find the ninth term of the following arithmetic series. 1, 5, 9, ... - ttdd33
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Find the ninth term of the following arithmetic series. 2, 8, 14, ... - ttdd50
Mathematics: This is a 20 second question. Be prepared to write down information. Find the ninth term of the following arithmetic series. Toss-Up: -9, -4, 1, ... - ttdd31
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Given two numbers, find their least common multiple. Six and ten - ttdd30
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Given two numbers, find their least common multiple. Eight and twelve - ttdd24
Mathematics: This is a 10 second question. Given two numbers, find their least common multiple. Toss-Up: Nine and fifteen - ttdd45
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following about simple interest loans. If Michael takes out a five thousand dollar loan with an interest rate of fourteen percent, how much must he pay back? - ttdd$5,700
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following about simple interest loans. If Brandon takes out a four thousand dollar loan with an interest rate of sixteen percent, how much must he pay back? - ttdd$4,640
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following about simple interest loans. Toss-Up: If Emily takes out a three thousand two hundred dollar loan and must pay back three thousand six hundred dollars, what was the interest rate on the loan? - ttdd12.5%
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about permutations. How many unique permutations are there of the letters in ASHES? - ttdd60
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about permutations. How many unique permutations are there of the letters in COFFEE? - ttdd180
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about permutations. Toss-Up: How many unique permutations are there of the letters in NATIONAL? - ttdd10,080
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these probability questions. For all questions, let the coin be a fair coin and the die be six-sided. What is the probability of flipping two consecutive tails and rolling an odd number? - ttdd1/8
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these probability questions. For all questions, let the coin be a fair coin and the die be six-sided. What is the probability of flipping two consecutive heads and rolling a prime number? - ttdd1/8
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these probability questions. For all questions, let the coin be a fair coin and the die be six-sided. Toss-Up: What is the probability of flipping one heads and one tails, in any order, and rolling an even number? - ttdd1/4
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a trigonometric function, identify the period of the function. You answer may include π (pi). y equals three sine of the quantity four x plus three pi, end quantity, plus two - ttddπ/2
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a trigonometric function, identify the period of the function. You answer may include π (pi). y equals negative four cosine of the quantity three x minus eight pi, end quantity, minus one - ttdd2π/3
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a trigonometric function, identify the period of the function. You answer may include π (pi). Toss-Up: y equals five tangent of the quantity seven pi x minus four, end quantity plus one - ttdd1/7
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following radicals. The square root of one hundred forty-seven - ttddSeven radical three
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following radicals. The square root of two hundred forty-five - ttddSeven radical five
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following radicals. Toss-Up: The square root of one hundred ninety-two - ttddEight radical three
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, identify the midpoint of the line segment that joins them. Four comma six and negative two comma four - ttdd(1, 5)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, identify the midpoint of the line segment that joins them. Negative five comma negative seven and negative three comma one - ttdd(-4, -3)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, identify the midpoint of the line segment that joins them. Toss-Up: Eight comma negative five and three comma negative nine - ttdd(5.5, -7) or (11/2, -7)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the first three terms in a geometric sequence, identify the sixth term. 512, -128, 32,... - ttdd-½ or -0.5
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the first three terms in a geometric sequence, identify the sixth term. 500, -100, 20,... - ttdd-4/25
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the first three terms in a geometric sequence, identify the sixth term. Toss-Up: -108, 36, -12,... - ttdd4/9
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. In terms of pi, convert the following angle measures from degrees to radians. One hundred thirty-five degrees - ttdd3 pi over 4 radians
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. In terms of pi, convert the following angle measures from degrees to radians. Two hundred ten degrees - ttdd7 pi over 6 radians
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. In terms of pi, convert the following angle measures from degrees to radians. Toss-Up: Four hundred twenty degrees - ttdd7 pi over 3 radians
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely factor the following polynomials. Three x-cubed minus twenty-one x-squared minus twenty-four x - ttdd3x (x - 8) (x + 1) [factors may be in any order]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely factor the following polynomials. Four x-cubed minus twenty-eight x-squared plus forty-eight x - ttdd4x (x - 4) (x - 3) [factors may be in any order]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely factor the following polynomials. Toss-Up: Five x-cubed plus three x-squared plus ten x plus six - ttdd(x2 + 2) (5x + 3) [factors may be in any order]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Consider a standard fifty-two card deck of cards. Make sure all answers are in simplest form. What is the probability of drawing a two or a heart? - ttdd4/13
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Consider a standard fifty-two card deck of cards. Make sure all answers are in simplest form. All cards have been put back into the deck. What is the probability of drawing an ace or a black card? - ttdd7/13
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Consider a standard fifty-two card deck of cards. Make sure all answers are in simplest form. Toss-Up: All cards have been put back into the deck. You draw the eight of spades out of the deck. Without replacing it, you draw another card. What is the probability of drawing another eight or another spade? - ttdd5/17
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial function, identify the function's zeros. y equals six x-squared plus eleven x minus thirty - ttddx = 3/2, -10/3 [in any order]
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial function, identify the function's zeros. y equals ten x-squared plus three x minus eighteen - ttddx = -3/2, 6/5 [in any order]
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial function, identify the function's zeros. Toss-Up: y equals six x-squared minus twenty-nine x plus twenty-eight - ttddx = 7/2, 4/3 [in any order]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given a word, identify how many unique permutations there are of the letters in that word. HIPPO - ttdd60
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given a word, identify how many unique permutations there are of the letters in that word. Team C: DOLLAR - ttdd360
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given a word, identify how many unique permutations there are of the letters in that word. CHEESE - ttdd120
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Calculate the area of the sector described. Leave your answers as reduced improper fractions and in terms of pi. What is the area of a forty degree sector of a circle with a radius of five inches? - ttdd25/9 pi square inches
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Calculate the area of the sector described. Leave your answers as reduced improper fractions and in terms of pi. What is the area of a fifteen degree sector of a circle with a radius of seven inches? - ttdd49/24 pi square inches
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Calculate the area of the sector described. Leave your answers as reduced improper fractions and in terms of pi. Toss-Up: What is the area of an eighty degree sector of a circle with a radius of eight inches? - ttdd128/9 pi square inches
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning matrix multiplication. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) What is the product of the one-by-two matrix with entries four, six and the two-by two matrix with a top row of negative four, four and bottom row negative four, two? - ttdd-40 28 [must be in this order] (Read: negative forty, twenty-eight)
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning matrix multiplication. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) What is the product of the two-by-one matrix with entries zero, negative five and the one-by-two matrix with entries three, negative six? - ttddTop row 0 0 (Read: zero, zero) Bottom row -15 30 [must be in this order] (Read:
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning matrix multiplication. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) negative fifteen, thirty) - ttddToss-Up: What is the product of the two-by-two matrix with top row two, negative one and bottom row five, negative two and the two-by-two matrix with top row negative one, zero and bottom row five, two?
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. You are rolling two standard six-sided die. Make sure all answers are completely reduced. What is the probability of rolling a multiple of four? - ttdd1/4
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. You are rolling two standard six-sided die. Make sure all answers are completely reduced. What is the probability of rolling a multiple of three? - ttdd1/3
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. You are rolling two standard six-sided die. Make sure all answers are completely reduced. Toss-Up: What is the probability of rolling a prime number? - ttdd5/12
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use your knowledge of special right triangles to help you answer the following questions. If a thirty-sixty-ninety triangle has a hypotenuse of ten radical three, how long is its longer leg? - ttdd15
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use your knowledge of special right triangles to help you answer the following questions. If a thirty-sixty-ninety triangle has a hypotenuse of eight radical two, how long is the longer leg? - ttddFour radical six
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use your knowledge of special right triangles to help you answer the following questions. Toss-Up: If a forty-five-forty-five-ninety triangle has a hypotenuse of eighteen radical six, what are the lengths of its congruent legs? - ttddEighteen radical three
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the distance between them. Make sure all radicals are completely simplified. Negative one comma five and negative seven comma one - ttddTwo radical thirteen
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the distance between them. Make sure all radicals are completely simplified. Five comma negative eight and seven comma zero - ttddTwo radical seventeen
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the distance between them. Make sure all radicals are completely simplified. Toss-Up: Seven comma negative four and negative five comma negative seven - ttddThree radical seventeen
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Calculate the product of the following complex numbers. What is the product of the quantity three plus five i, end quantity, and the quantity negative one minus i? - ttdd2 - 8i
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Calculate the product of the following complex numbers. What is the product of the quantity seven minus six i, end quantity, and the quantity negative two plus six i? - ttdd22 + 54i
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Calculate the product of the following complex numbers. Toss-Up: What is the product of the quantity negative five plus four i, end quantity, and the quantity negative seven plus three i? - ttdd23 - 43i
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a two-by-two matrix, calculate its determinant. Top row five four and bottom row negative five negative two - ttdd10
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a two-by-two matrix, calculate its determinant. Top row negative three five and bottom row negative five three - ttdd16
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a two-by-two matrix, calculate its determinant. Toss-Up: Top row seven negative eight and bottom row six two - ttdd62
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two or three numbers, identify their least common multiple. Nine and twenty-one - ttdd63
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two or three numbers, identify their least common multiple. Eighteen and thirty - ttdd90
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two or three numbers, identify their least common multiple. Toss-Up: Twelve, twenty-four, and thirty - ttdd120
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial division problem, identify the remainder. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) x-cubed plus ten x-squared plus eighteen x minus six divided by x plus two - ttdd-10
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial division problem, identify the remainder. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) x-cubed minus eight x-squared minus x divided by x minus eight - ttdd-8
Mathematics: 40 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial division problem, identify the remainder. (Note to reader: read each question two times.) Toss-Up: Two x-cubed minus eight x-squared minus fifty-six x minus sixty-nine divided by x minus eight - ttdd-5
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a trigonometric function, identify the function's period in radians. y equals three times the cosine of the quantity eight x plus three pi over four, end quantity, minus four - ttddPi over four radians
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a trigonometric function, identify the function's period in radians. y equals negative five plus the sine of the quantity x over four minus pi over two - ttddEight pi radians
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a trigonometric function, identify the function's period in radians. Toss-Up: y equals seven times the tangent of six x plus seven pi over six - ttddPi over six radians
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given a base ten number, convert it to binary. 31 - ttdd11111
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given a base ten number, convert it to binary. 34 - ttdd100010
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given a base ten number, convert it to binary. Toss-Up: 47 - ttdd101111
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer these rate of work problems. Give all answers as simplified, improper fractions. If Gabe can paint a wall in five hours and Lee can paint a wall in four hours, how long will it take the two of them working together to paint a wall? - ttdd20/9 hours
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer these rate of work problems. Give all answers as simplified, improper fractions. If Emily can power wash the deck in ten hours and Michael can power wash the deck in six hours, how long will it take the two of them working together to power wash the deck? - ttdd15/4 hours
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer these rate of work problems. Give all answers as simplified, improper fractions. Toss-Up: If Ann takes three hours to send out a mailing, Carol takes four hours, and Cindy takes four hours, how long will it take the three of them working together to send out a mailing? - ttdd6/5 hours
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following absolute value equations. The absolute value of the quantity two x minus eight equals ten - ttddx = -1 and 9 [in either order]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following absolute value equations. The absolute value of the quantity six x minus eight equals ten - ttddx = -1/3 and 3 [in either order]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following absolute value equations. Toss-Up: Six plus the absolute value of the quantity negative one minus nine x equals seven - ttddx = -2/9 and 0 [in either order]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the volume of the following solids. Leave all answers in terms of pi. What is the volume of a cylinder with a radius of four inches and a height of nine inches? - ttdd144 pi square inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the volume of the following solids. Leave all answers in terms of pi. What is the volume of a cone with a radius of six inches and a height of seven inches? - ttdd84 pi square inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the volume of the following solids. Leave all answers in terms of pi. Toss-Up: What is the volume of a square pyramid with a base length of three inches and a height of eight inches? - ttdd24 square inches
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions concerning perpendicular lines. Be sure to give your answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line passing through negative one comma three that is perpendicular to the line y equals one-third x minus three? - ttddy = -3x
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions concerning perpendicular lines. Be sure to give your answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line passing through negative three comma negative four that is perpendicular to the line y equals negative three-fifths x plus five? - ttddy = 5/3 x + 1
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions concerning perpendicular lines. Be sure to give your answers in slope-intercept form. Toss-Up: What is the equation of the line passing through negative four comma negative three that is perpendicular to the line y equals negative four-sevenths x plus two? - ttddy = 7/4 x + 4
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the equation of a parabola, identify its vertex. y equals x-squared plus eight x plus eighteen - ttdd(-4, 2)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the equation of a parabola, identify its vertex. y equals x-squared minus two x minus two - ttdd(1, -3)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the equation of a parabola, identify its vertex. Toss-Up: y equals negative four x-squared minus twenty-four x plus twenty-seven - ttdd(3, -9)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use your knowledge of trigonometry and Pythagorean triples to answer the following questions. If triangle ABC is a right triangle where C is the right angle, and the sine of angle A is five-thirteenths, what is the cosine of angle A? - ttdd12/13
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use your knowledge of trigonometry and Pythagorean triples to answer the following questions. If triangle DEF is a right triangle where F is the right angle, and the tangent of angle D is seven-twenty-fourths, what is the sine of angle D? - ttdd7/25
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use your knowledge of trigonometry and Pythagorean triples to answer the following questions. Toss-Up: If triangle XYZ is a right triangle where Z is the right angle, and the cosine of angle Y is fifteen-seventeenths, what is the cosine of angle X? - ttdd8/17
Mathematics: Complete the following trigonometric identities. For instance, if I said "one minus cosine squared of theta is equal to what?", you would reply "sine squared of theta." Be sure to provide the function and what is inside of the function in your response. All answers will involve a single trig function. Cosine squared of theta minus sine squared of theta is equal to what? - ttddCosine of two theta
Mathematics: Complete the following trigonometric identities. For instance, if I said "one minus cosine squared of theta is equal to what?", you would reply "sine squared of theta." Be sure to provide the function and what is inside of the function in your response. All answers will involve a single trig function. One minus two sine squared of theta is equal to what? - ttddCosine of two theta
Mathematics: Complete the following trigonometric identities. For instance, if I said "one minus cosine squared of theta is equal to what?", you would reply "sine squared of theta." Be sure to provide the function and what is inside of the function in your response. All answers will involve a single trig function. Toss-Up: Two sine theta cosine theta is equal to what? - ttddSine of two theta
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a complex number, calculate its absolute value. Make sure that all answers are completely simplified. What is the absolute value of seven plus five i? - ttddRadical seventy-four
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a complex number, calculate its absolute value. Make sure that all answers are completely simplified. What is the absolute value of four minus seven i? - ttddRadical sixty-five
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a complex number, calculate its absolute value. Make sure that all answers are completely simplified. Toss-Up: What is the absolute value of four plus six i? - ttddTwo radical thirteen
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Calculate the following geometric means. What is the geometric mean of 3 and 48? - ttdd12
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Calculate the following geometric means. What is the geometric mean of 4 and 49? - ttdd14
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Calculate the following geometric means. Toss-Up: What is the geometric mean of 2, 5, and 100? - ttdd10
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a quadratic equation, calculate its discriminant. Negative eight x-squared minus nine x plus one equals zero - ttdd113
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a quadratic equation, calculate its discriminant. Eight x-squared minus nine x plus three equals zero - ttdd-15
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a quadratic equation, calculate its discriminant. Toss-Up: Negative seven x-squared plus ten x plus seven equals zero - ttdd296
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about test averages. Joe needs to average an 85 percent over three tests. On his first two tests, he received a 76% and an 87%. What does he need on his third test to average an 85%? - ttdd92 percent
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about test averages. Team C: Eve needs to average a 93 percent over three tests. On his first two tests, she received a 90% and an 89%. What does she need on her third test to average a 93%? - ttdd100 percent
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about test averages. Alison needs to average a 74 percent over three tests. On her first two tests, she received a 65% and a 71%. What does she need on her third test to average a 74%? - ttdd86 percent
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about consecutive numbers. All questions will require THREE answers. What three consecutive even numbers sum to eighty-four? - ttdd26, 28, and 30
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about consecutive numbers. All questions will require THREE answers. What three consecutive odd numbers sum to one hundred seventeen? - ttdd37, 39, and 41
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about consecutive numbers. All questions will require THREE answers. Toss-Up: What three consecutive prime numbers sum to one hundred eighty-seven? - ttdd59, 61, and 67
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial, find its discriminant. Negative three x-squared minus six x minus five - ttdd-24
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial, find its discriminant. Negative three x-squared plus x plus seven - ttdd85
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a polynomial, find its discriminant. Toss-Up: Seven x-squared plus ten x minus two - ttdd156
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. All questions will refer to the following function: y equals three times the sine of the quantity two x plus four, end quantity minus one. What is the amplitude of this function? - ttdd3
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. All questions will refer to the following function: y equals three times the sine of the quantity two x plus four, end quantity minus one. What is the vertical shift of this function when compared to the graph of the sine of x? - ttdd-1 or One down
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. All questions will refer to the following function: y equals three times the sine of the quantity two x plus four, end quantity minus one. Toss-Up: When compared to the graph of the sine of x, what is the phase shift of this function? - ttdd-2 or Two left
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about midpoints. What is the midpoint of the line segment connecting ten comma negative three and zero comma one? - ttdd(5, -1)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about midpoints. What is the midpoint of the line segment connecting ten comma negative nine and negative four comma negative three? - ttdd(3, -6)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about midpoints. Toss-Up: If a line segment has one of its endpoints at four comma ten and its midpoint at three-halves comma six, what is the coordinate of the other endpoint of the line segment? - ttdd(-1, 2)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given information about a pair of angles, find the value of x. Angle A measures one hundred twenty-five degrees, Angle B measures twelve x minus seven degrees, and the two angles are corresponding angles. What is the value of x? - ttdd11
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given information about a pair of angles, find the value of x. Angle C measures thirteen x plus five degrees, Angle D measures fifteen x minus five degrees, and the two angles are alternate exterior angles. What is the value of x? - ttdd5
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given information about a pair of angles, find the value of x. Toss-Up: Angle E measures fourteen x plus one degrees, Angle F measures fourteen x plus eleven degrees, and the two angles are same side interior angles. What is the value of x? - ttdd6
Mathematics: Identify the following functions. What trigonometric function has a range of negative one to one, with both endpoints included, and has three x-intercepts on the closed interval zero to two pi? - ttddsine
Mathematics: Identify the following functions. What trigonometric function never touches the y-axis and has vertical asymptotes at odd multiples of pi over two? - ttddsecant
Mathematics: Identify the following functions. Toss-Up: It's not the absolute value, but when performing an integration of the tangent function, the result is this function applied to the cosine. This function has a range of zero to infinity, and its own derivative is the reciprocal function. John Napier described this function that has an x-intercept of (1,0) and can never equal a negative number. What graph is only seen in quadrants one and four and is the inverse of the exponential function? - ttddNatural log(arithm) or log base e
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about arc lengths. Be sure to reduce all answers. If the radius of a circle is eight feet, what is the length of a thirty degree arc? - ttdd4 pi / 3 feet
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about arc lengths. Be sure to reduce all answers. If the radius of a circle is twelve feet, what is the length of a forty-five degree arc? - ttdd3 pi feet
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about arc lengths. Be sure to reduce all answers. Toss-Up: If the diameter of a circle is twenty-five feet, what is the length of a twelve degree arc? - ttdd5 pi / 6 feet
Mathematics: 45 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning polynomial division. What is the result when the quantity x to the fourth plus x-cubed minus x-squared plus nine x minus eighteen is divided by the quantity x plus three? - ttddx3 - 2x2 + 5x - 6
Mathematics: 45 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning polynomial division. What is the result when the quantity x to the fourth minus six x-cubed plus fifteen x-squared minus seventeen x plus six is divided by the quantity x minus two? - ttddx3 - 4x2 + 7x - 3
Mathematics: 45 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning polynomial division. Toss-Up: What is the result when the quantity three x to the fourth minus eight x-cubed plus twelve x-squared minus twelve x plus five is divided by the quantity three x-squared minus two x plus five? - ttddx2 - 2x + 1
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Let matrix A be a two-by-one matrix with first row five and second row three. Let matrix B be a one-by-two matrix with first row negative one, two. Let matrix C be a two-by-two matrix with first row zero, four and second row negative seven, and one. Be sure when answering to indicate if you are changing rows when indicating the elements of the matrix. What is matrix BC? - ttddFirst Row -14 Second Row -2
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Let matrix A be a two-by-one matrix with first row five and second row three. Let matrix B be a one-by-two matrix with first row negative one, two. Let matrix C be a two-by-two matrix with first row zero, four and second row negative seven, and one. Be sure when answering to indicate if you are changing rows when indicating the elements of the matrix. What is matrix CA? - ttddFirst Row 12 Second Row -32
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Let matrix A be a two-by-one matrix with first row five and second row three. Let matrix B be a one-by-two matrix with first row negative one, two. Let matrix C be a two-by-two matrix with first row zero, four and second row negative seven, and one. Be sure when answering to indicate if you are changing rows when indicating the elements of the matrix. Toss-Up: What is matrix AB? - ttddFirst Row -5, 10 Second Row -3, 6
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a function, identify the equation of its inverse. f of x equals one over the quantity x minus one - ttddf -1(x) = (1/x) + 1
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a function, identify the equation of its inverse. g of x equals the quantity negative x minus five, end quantity, over three - ttddg -1(x) = -3x - 5
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a function, identify the equation of its inverse. Toss-Up: h of x equals the natural logarithm of the quantity three x plus seven, end quantity - ttddh -1(x) = (ex - 7) / 3 or h -1(x) = (ex /3) - (7/3)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the equation of a parabola, identify the coordinates of its vertex. f of x equals x-squared minus twelve x plus forty-six - ttdd(6, 10)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the equation of a parabola, identify the coordinates of its vertex. g of x equals x-squared plus sixteen x plus seventy-one - ttdd(-8, 7)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given the equation of a parabola, identify the coordinates of its vertex. Toss-Up: h of x equals negative x-squared minus fourteen x minus fifty-nine - ttdd(-7, -10)
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the derivative of the following functions. y equals eight x cubed, plus sine x, minus e to the two x power - ttddy' = 24x2 + cos(x) - 2e2x
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the derivative of the following functions. y equals four x to the fourth, plus cosine of three x, plus the natural log of x - ttddy' = 16x3 - 3sin(3x) + 1/x
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Find the derivative of the following functions. y equals secant x, plus arctangent x - ttddy' = sec(x)tan(x) + 1/(1+x2) or tan(x)sec(x) + 1/(1+x2)
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given two points, find the equation of the line passing through them. Provide your answers in slope-intercept form. Negative one comma negative four and negative two comma one - ttddy = -5x - 9
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given two points, find the equation of the line passing through them. Provide your answers in slope-intercept form. Negative two comma negative five and negative one comma negative one - ttddy = 4x + 3
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Given two points, find the equation of the line passing through them. Provide your answers in slope-intercept form. Toss-Up: Negative five comma negative one and negative four comma four - ttddy = 5x + 24
Mathematics: You will have ten seconds for the team questions. Find all x-intercepts to the following polynomials. y equals x squared minus five x minus six. - ttddx = 6 and x = -1
Mathematics: You will have ten seconds for the team questions. Find all x-intercepts to the following polynomials. y equals x squared plus one x minus twelve. - ttddx = -4 and x = 3
Mathematics: You will have ten seconds for the team questions. Find all x-intercepts to the following polynomials. Toss-Up: (NOTE TO READER: READ THE EQUATION SLOWLY) You will have thirty seconds. - ttddFind all x-intercepts of the following polynomial. You will not be ruled correct or incorrect until you finish providing all answers. y equals x to the fourth minus seven x squared plus 12.
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions about simple interest loans. If Chase takes out a four thousand two hundred dollar loan at five percent, what amount must he pay back? - ttdd$4,410
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions about simple interest loans. If Jason takes out a five thousand five hundred dollar loan at six percent, what amount must he pay back? - ttdd$5,830
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions about simple interest loans. Toss-Up: If Brian takes out a six thousand dollar loan at seven point five percent, what amount must he pay back? - ttdd$6,450
Mathematics: Identify these mathematicians. What German mathematician is credited with discovering calculus separately from Isaac Newton? - ttddGottfried Leibniz
Mathematics: Identify these mathematicians. What other German mathematician proved the constructability of the regular heptadecagon and is the namesake of the normal distribution? - ttddCarl Friedrich Gauss
Mathematics: Identify these mathematicians. Toss-Up: This mathematician correctly proved that pi squared over six is the solution to the Basel problem, and he names a "brick" which has integer edges and face diagonals. Along with Poincare, this man names a characteristic, and a lowercase gamma symbolizes a constant named for this man and Mascheroni. Silverman's Constant can be found by using this man's generalization of Fermat's Little Theorem that is known as his Totient Function. What man used graph theory to solve the Seven Bridges of Königsberg problem, and is the namesake of the constant e? - ttddLeonhard Euler
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the slope of a line segment that would connect them. Be sure to completely reduce all answers. The points two comma seven and four comma negative nine - ttdd-8
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the slope of a line segment that would connect them. Be sure to completely reduce all answers. The points five comma eleven and three comma negative three - ttdd7
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the slope of a line segment that would connect them. Be sure to completely reduce all answers. Toss-Up: The points six comma one-half and eight comma three-fourths - ttdd1/8 or 0.125
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about arithmetic sequences. What is the twentieth term in the arithmetic sequence one, four, seven, ...? - ttdd58
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about arithmetic sequences. What is the thirtieth term in the arithmetic sequence two, eight, fourteen, ...? - ttdd176
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about arithmetic sequences. Toss-Up: What is the one hundred first term in the arithmetic sequence three, eight, thirteen, ...? - ttdd503
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning linear measurements. If a cylinder has a height of seven inches and a volume of one hundred twelve pi cubic inches, what is the radius of the cylinder? - ttdd4 inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning linear measurements. If a cone has a radius of six inches and a volume of ninety-six pi cubic inches, what is the height of the cone? - ttdd8 inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning linear measurements. Toss-Up: If a square pyramid has a height of nine inches and a volume of one hundred forty-seven cubic inches, what is the length of one side of the base? - ttdd7 inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use the following functions for all questions: f of x equals x-squared plus three and g of x equals two x minus three. What is the value of g of f of four? - ttdd35
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use the following functions for all questions: f of x equals x-squared plus three and g of x equals two x minus three. What is the value of f of g of negative one? - ttdd28
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Use the following functions for all questions: f of x equals x-squared plus three and g of x equals two x minus three. Toss-Up: What is the value of g of f of g of two? - ttdd5
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric functions. If the tangent of theta equals six-sevenths, what is the cosecant of theta? - ttdd√85/6
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric functions. If the tangent of theta equals five-ninths, what is the secant of theta? - ttdd√106/9
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning trigonometric functions. Toss-Up: If the sine of theta equals seven-twenty-fifths, what is the cotangent of theta? - ttdd24/7
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about parallel lines. Give all answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line that passes through one comma four and is parallel to y equals three x plus five? - ttddy = 3x + 1
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about parallel lines. Give all answers in slope-intercept form. What is the equation of the line that passes through negative one comma three and is parallel to y equals four x minus seven? - ttddy = 4x + 7
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about parallel lines. Give all answers in slope-intercept form. Toss-Up: What is the equation of the line that passes through ten comma three and is parallel to four x plus five y equals ten? - ttddy = -4/5x + 11 or y = -0.8x + 11
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely condense the given expression into a single logarithm. Two times the logarithm of x plus three times the logarithm of y - ttddlog (x2y3)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely condense the given expression into a single logarithm. Four times the logarithm of x minus five times the logarithm of y - ttddlog (x4/y5)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely condense the given expression into a single logarithm. Toss-Up: The logarithm of w minus three times the logarithm of x plus four times the logarithm of y minus the logarithm of z - ttddlog (wy4 / x3z)
Mathematics: Solve the following division problems involving polynomials. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Two x squared minus six x minus eighty divided by the quantity x minus eight. - ttdd2x + 10 OR 2 times the quantity x + 5
Mathematics: Solve the following division problems involving polynomials. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Three x squared minus nine x minus fifty-four divided by the quantity x minus six. - ttdd3x + 9 OR 3 times the quantity x + 3
Mathematics: Solve the following division problems involving polynomials. You will have 20 seconds for team questions. Toss-Up: (You will have 40 seconds.) Eight x to the fourth plus eighteen x to the third minus seven x squared minus twenty-four x divided by the quantity two x plus three. - ttdd4x3 + 3x2 - 8x
Mathematics: Answer these questions about the geometric mean. You will have 20 seconds for all questions. What is the geometric mean of 5 and 20? - ttdd10
Mathematics: Answer these questions about the geometric mean. You will have 20 seconds for all questions. What is the geometric mean of 2 and 72? - ttdd12
Mathematics: Answer these questions about the geometric mean. You will have 20 seconds for all questions. Toss-Up: What is the geometric mean of 2, 2, and 54? - ttdd6
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following linear inequalities. Give your answers in interval notation. Be sure to indicate whether your interval begins and ends with a parenthesis or bracket. Seven minus four x is greater than five - ttdd(-∞, ½)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following linear inequalities. Give your answers in interval notation. Be sure to indicate whether your interval begins and ends with a parenthesis or bracket. Eight minus three x is less than or equal to two - ttdd[2, ∞)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following linear inequalities. Give your answers in interval notation. Be sure to indicate whether your interval begins and ends with a parenthesis or bracket. Toss-Up: Negative one is less than two x plus eleven is less than or equal to five - ttdd(-6, -3]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. For team questions, use the function f of x equals the quantity x-squared minus nine, end quantity over the quantity two x-squared minus seven x minus four. Be sure if asked for an equation to give the full equation. What is the equation of the horizontal asymptote of this function? - ttddy = ½
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. For team questions, use the function f of x equals the quantity x-squared minus nine, end quantity over the quantity two x-squared minus seven x minus four. Be sure if asked for an equation to give the full equation. What are the equations of all vertical asymptotes of this function? - ttddx = -½ and x = 4 [in either order; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. For team questions, use the function f of x equals the quantity x-squared minus nine, end quantity over the quantity two x-squared minus seven x minus four. Be sure if asked for an equation to give the full equation. Toss-Up: For this question, consider the following function: g of x equals the quantity x minus five, end quantity, over the quantity x plus nine, end quantity. What are the locations of all asymptotes? - ttddy = 1 and x = -9 [in either order; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Use the following data set for all questions: 5, 9, 11, 11, 13, 14, 20, 24. What is the range of this data set? - ttdd19
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Use the following data set for all questions: 5, 9, 11, 11, 13, 14, 20, 24. What is the median of this data set? - ttdd12
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Use the following data set for all questions: 5, 9, 11, 11, 13, 14, 20, 24. Toss-Up: What is the mode of this data set? - ttdd11
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning angle pair relationships. If angle A measures two x plus eleven degrees, angle B measures three x plus five degrees, and angles A and B are alternate interior angles, what is the measure of angle A? - ttdd23 degrees
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning angle pair relationships. If angle C measures four x plus nine degrees, angle D measures six x plus five degrees, and angles C and D are alternate exterior angles, what is the measure of angle C? - ttdd17 degrees
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning angle pair relationships. Toss-Up: If angle E measures seven x plus twelve degrees and angle F measures x plus eight degrees, and angles E and F are same side interior angles, what is the measure of angle F? - ttdd28 degrees
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely expand and simplify the following expressions. The quantity x plus three, end quantity, times the quantity x-squared minus five x plus six, end quantity - ttddx3 - 2x2 - 9x + 18
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely expand and simplify the following expressions. The quantity x minus four, end quantity, times the quantity x-squared plus seven x minus eleven, end quantity - ttddx3 + 3x2 - 39x + 44
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely expand and simplify the following expressions. Toss-Up: The quantity x-squared plus nine, end quantity, times the quantity x-squared minus twelve x plus ten, end quantity - ttddx4 - 12x3 + 19x2 - 108x + 90
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider a standard fifty-two card deck. Be sure to reduce all answers. What is the probability of drawing two cards and having them all be of the same rank, for instance both threes or both kings? - ttdd1/17
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider a standard fifty-two card deck. Be sure to reduce all answers. All cards have been replaced. What is the probability of drawing two cards and having them both be of the same suit? - ttdd4/17
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. For all questions, consider a standard fifty-two card deck. Be sure to reduce all answers. Toss-Up: All cards have been replaced. What is the probability of drawing three cards and having them all be of the same rank? - ttdd1/425
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given an angle measurement in radians, convert it to degrees. Nine pi over four radians - ttdd405 degrees
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given an angle measurement in radians, convert it to degrees. Nineteen pi over six radians - ttdd570 degrees
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given an angle measurement in radians, convert it to degrees. Toss-Up: Thirty-five pi over six radians - ttdd1050 degrees
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Simplify the following logarithms. Log base one hundred twenty-five of five - ttdd1/3
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Simplify the following logarithms. Log base two of one-sixteenth - ttdd-4
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Simplify the following logarithms. Toss-Up: Log base one-ninth of three - ttdd-1/2
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely condense the given expression into a single logarithm. Two times the logarithm of x plus three times the logarithm of y - ttddlog (x2y3)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely condense the given expression into a single logarithm. Four times the logarithm of x minus five times the logarithm of y - ttddlog (x4/y5)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely condense the given expression into a single logarithm. Toss-Up: The logarithm of w minus three times the logarithm of x plus four times the logarithm of y minus the logarithm of z - ttddlog (wy4 / x3z)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning permutations. How many unique permutations are there of the letters in the word COFFEE? - ttdd180
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning permutations. How many unique permutations are there of the letters in the word CHEESE? - ttdd120
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning permutations. Toss-Up: How many unique permutations are there of the letters in the word FURTHER? - ttdd2,520
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Calculate the following limits. What is the limit as x approaches three of the quantity x minus three, end quantity, over the quantity, x-squared plus two x minus fifteen, end quantity? - ttdd1/8
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Calculate the following limits. What is the limit as x approaches four of the quantity x minus four, end quantity, over the quantity, x-squared plus two x minus twenty-four, end quantity? - ttdd1/10
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Calculate the following limits. Toss-Up: What is the limit as x approaches negative four of the the square root of the quantity x plus five, end quantity minus one, all over the quantity x plus four, end quantity? - ttdd1/2
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Consider all dice to be standard, fair, six-sided dice. Be sure that all answers are reduced. If rolling two dice simultaneously and summing their result, what is the probability of rolling a seven and then rolling a five? - ttdd1/54
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Consider all dice to be standard, fair, six-sided dice. Be sure that all answers are reduced. If rolling two dice simultaneously and summing their result, what is the probability of rolling an eleven and then rolling a seven? - ttdd1/108
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Consider all dice to be standard, fair, six-sided dice. Be sure that all answers are reduced. Toss-Up: If rolling a single die, what is the probability that it will take four rolls to roll a six? - ttdd125/1,296
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions pertaining to volume. Any answer involving pi can be left in terms of pi. What is the volume of a pyramid with a base area of 6 and a height of 10? - ttdd20
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions pertaining to volume. Any answer involving pi can be left in terms of pi. What is the volume of a cone with a radius of 4 and a height of 6? - ttdd32 pi
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer the following questions pertaining to volume. Any answer involving pi can be left in terms of pi. Tossup: What is the volume of a sphere with a radius of 3? - ttdd36 pi
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions pertaining to the unit circle. Make sure that all answers are rationalized. What is the sine of 300 degrees? - ttddNegative radical three over two
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions pertaining to the unit circle. Make sure that all answers are rationalized. What is the tangent of 300 degrees? - ttddNegative radical three
Math: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions pertaining to the unit circle. Make sure that all answers are rationalized. Tossup: What is the secant of 300 degrees? - ttdd2
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following rational expressions. The quantity x-squared minus eleven x plus eighteen, end quantity, over the quantity x-squared plus two x minus eight, end quantity - ttdd(x - 9) / (x + 4)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following rational expressions. The quantity x-squared minus three x minus forty, end quantity, over the quantity x-squared minus eleven x plus twenty-four, end quantity - ttdd(x + 5) / (x - 3)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following rational expressions. Toss-Up: The quantity two x-squared plus five x minus seven, end quantity, over the quantity seven x-squared minus five x minus two, end quantity - ttdd(2x + 7) / (7x + 2)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following absolute value equations. What are the possible values of x if the absolute value of the quantity eight x minus fourteen, end quantity equals ten? - ttddx = ½, 3 or x = 0.5, 3 [in either order; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following absolute value equations. What are the possible values of x if the absolute value of the quantity ten x minus eight, end quantity equals twelve? - ttddx = -⅖, 2 or x = -0.4, 2 [in either order; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following absolute value equations. Toss-Up: What are the possible values of x if negative two times the absolute value of the quantity five minus six x, end quantity equals three? - ttddNo solution [accept common knowledge equivalents]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following expressions. Assume that the variables x and y are positive. The square root of the quantity ninety-six x to the seventh y to the eighth, end quantity - ttdd4x3y4 √6x
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following expressions. Assume that the variables x and y are positive. The square root of the quantity one hundred eight x to the tenth y to the ninth, end quantity - ttdd6x5y4 √3y
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Completely simplify the following expressions. Assume that the variables x and y are positive. Toss-Up: The cube root of the quantity one hundred twenty-eight x to the ninth y to the eighth, end quantity - ttdd4x3y2 ∛2y2
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. For the team questions, use the following data set: 3, 4, 7, 9, 11, 13, 20, 25, 27, 31. What is the value of the first quartile? - ttdd7
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. For the team questions, use the following data set: 3, 4, 7, 9, 11, 13, 20, 25, 27, 31. What is the value of the third quartile? - ttdd25
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. For the team questions, use the following data set: 3, 4, 7, 9, 11, 13, 20, 25, 27, 31. Toss-Up: For this question, consider the data set: 39, 41, 52, 73, 84. What is the value of the interquartile range? - ttdd32
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning surface area and volume. If a sphere has a surface area of thirty-six pi and its radius is then doubled, what will be the surface area of the new sphere? - ttdd144 pi
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning surface area and volume. If a sphere has a volume of thirty-six pi and its radius is then doubled, what will be the volume of the new sphere? - ttdd288 pi
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning surface area and volume. Toss-Up: If a sphere has a surface area and volume of thirty-six pi, what is the measure of the sphere's radius? - ttdd3
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely expand the following binomials. Be sure to simplify your answer if necessary. The quantity x plus two raised to the fourth power - ttddx4 + 8x3 + 24x2 + 32x + 16
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely expand the following binomials. Be sure to simplify your answer if necessary. The quantity x minus three raised to the fourth power - ttddx4 - 12x3 + 54x2 - 108x + 81
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely expand the following binomials. Be sure to simplify your answer if necessary. Toss-Up: The quantity x plus one raised to the fifth power - ttddx5 + 5x4 + 10x3 + 10x2 + 5x + 1
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following radical equations. What is the value of x if the square root of the quantity three x minus eight, end quantity equals ten? - ttddx = 36
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following radical equations. What is the value of x if the square root of the quantity two x plus eleven, end quantity equals nine? - ttddx = 35
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following radical equations. Toss-Up: What are the possible values of x if the square root of the quantity five x minus six, end quantity equals x? - ttddx = 2 or 3 [may be given in either order; do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning simple interest loans. If Devon takes out a three thousand five hundred dollar loan at a seven percent interest rate, how much money will he owe back? - ttdd$3,745
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning simple interest loans. If Leslie takes out a four thousand two hundred dollar loan at a six percent interest rate, how much money will she owe back? - ttdd$4,452
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning simple interest loans. Toss-Up: If Alex takes out a five thousand four hundred dollar loan at a five point five percent interest rate, how much money will he owe back? - ttdd$5,697
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about special right triangles. Be sure that your answers are rationalized and completely simplified. If the hypotenuse of a 45-45-90 triangle is ten inches, what is the length of one of the legs? - ttdd5√2 inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about special right triangles. Be sure that your answers are rationalized and completely simplified. If the hypotenuse of a 30-60-90 triangle is 20 inches, what is the length of the longer leg? - ttdd10√3 inches
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about special right triangles. Be sure that your answers are rationalized and completely simplified. Toss-Up: Consider a 45-45-90 triangle that shares its hypotenuse with a 30-60-90 triangle. If one leg of the 45-45-90 triangle is four, what is the length of the longer leg of the 30-60-90 triangle? - ttdd2√6 inches
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Solve the following systems of equations. Be sure to indicate both the value of x and y. Two x plus y equals twenty and six x minus five y equals twelve - ttdd(7, 6) or x = 7 and y = 6 [do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Solve the following systems of equations. Be sure to indicate both the value of x and y. Negative two x minus y equals negative nine and five x minus two y equals eighteen - ttdd(4, 1) or x = 4 and y = 1 [do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Solve the following systems of equations. Be sure to indicate both the value of x and y. Toss-Up: Six x plus six y equals negative six and five x plus y equals negative thirteen - ttdd(-3, 2) or x = -3 and y = 2 [do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about special right triangles. Be sure that all answers are completely simplified. If the length of a leg of a 45-45-90 triangle is radical six, what is the length of the hypotenuse? - ttdd2√3
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about special right triangles. Be sure that all answers are completely simplified. If the length of the hypotenuse of a 45-45-90 triangle is eight, what is the length of one of the legs? - ttdd4√2
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about special right triangles. Be sure that all answers are completely simplified. Toss-Up: If the length of the hypotenuse of a 30-60-90 triangle is four radical three, what is the length of the longer leg? - ttdd6
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely factor the following polynomials. Twelve x-squared minus ninety x plus one hundred fifty - ttdd6 (2x - 5) (x - 5) [in any order]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely factor the following polynomials. Ten x-squared plus ninety-four x minus sixty - ttdd2 (5x - 3) (x + 10) [in any order]
Mathematics: 30 seconds for all questions. Completely factor the following polynomials. Toss-Up: Sixteen x-cubed minus twenty-four x-squared plus six x minus nine - ttdd(8x2 + 3) (2x - 3) [in either order]
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given an angle measure in radians, convert it to degrees. Seven pi over eighteen - ttdd70 degrees
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given an angle measure in radians, convert it to degrees. Twenty pi over nine - ttdd400 degrees
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given an angle measure in radians, convert it to degrees. Toss-Up: Five pi over twelve - ttdd75 degrees
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning the normal distribution. For the team questions, round your answers to the nearest percent. What percentage of data lies within one standard deviation of the mean? - ttdd68%
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning the normal distribution. For the team questions, round your answers to the nearest percent. What percentage of data lies within two standard deviations of the mean? - ttdd95%
Mathematics: 10 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions concerning the normal distribution. For the team questions, round your answers to the nearest percent. Toss-Up: If the size of potato chip bags follows a normal distribution and sixty-eight percent of potato chip bags fall between thirteen ounces and sixteen ounces, what is the standard deviation among these potato chip bags? - ttdd1.5
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the slope of the line that passes through them. Give all answers as completely simplified fractions. Fifteen comma sixteen and negative fifteen comma negative seventeen - ttdd11/10
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the slope of the line that passes through them. Give all answers as completely simplified fractions. Nine comma negative eighteen and seventeen comma negative thirteen - ttdd5/8
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given two points, calculate the slope of the line that passes through them. Give all answers as completely simplified fractions. Toss-Up: Negative fourteen comma nine and ten comma negative eighteen - ttdd-9/8
Math: Identify these mathematicians. What Greek mathematician included five postulates in his book Elements and proved that there are infinitely many prime numbers? - ttddEuclid
Math: Identify these mathematicians. What Swiss mathematician is known for inventing graph theory and solving the Seven Bridges of Konigsberg problem? - ttddLeonhard Euler
Math: Identify these mathematicians. Tossup: This man shared the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics with Reinhard Selten and John Harsanyi for work on a problem that was proven by the Brouwer Fixed Point theorem. This man was killed in a 2015 car crash after returning from Norway where he received the Abel Prize and this man's schizophrenia was profiled in the film A Beautiful Mind. Identify this mathematician who developed a namesake equilibrium in game theory. - ttddJohn Forbes Nash
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about percentages. What is fifteen percent of eighty? - ttdd12
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about percentages. What is twelve percent of one hundred fifty? - ttdd18
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about percentages. Toss-Up: Thirteen is what percent of two hundred sixty? - ttdd5%
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following linear inequalities. All answer should be stated as "x is greater than a number" or "x is less than a number." Nine times the quantity three plus x, end quantity, is greater than negative thirty-six - ttddx is greater than -7 or (-7, ∞)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following linear inequalities. All answer should be stated as "x is greater than a number" or "x is less than a number." Negative fourteen is greater than negative five minus three x - ttddx is greater than 3 or (3, ∞)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Solve the following linear inequalities. All answer should be stated as "x is greater than a number" or "x is less than a number." Toss-Up: Negative ten plus x, all over twenty-two, is less than or equal to negative one - ttddx is less than -12 or (∞, -12)
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a list of numbers, calculate their least common multiple. Sixteen and twenty-four - ttdd48
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a list of numbers, calculate their least common multiple. Twelve and twenty - ttdd60
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Given a list of numbers, calculate their least common multiple. Toss-Up: Eight, eighteen, and twenty-two - ttdd792
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about parallel and perpendicular lines. What is the slope of a line that is parallel to the line 3x - 4y = 10? - ttdd3/4
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about parallel and perpendicular lines. What is the slope of a line that is parallel to the line -2x + 5y = 130? - ttdd2/5 or 0.4
Mathematics: 20 seconds for all questions. Answer these questions about parallel and perpendicular lines. Toss-Up: What is the slope of a line that is perpendicular to the line 8x + (1/2)y = 17? - ttdd1/16
Mathematics: Answer the following about matrices. This operation is not commutative on matrices. This operation can only be performed on two matrices if the first matrix has the same number of columns as the second matrix has rows, and the result of performing this operation on an a-by-b and a b-by-c matrix is an a-by-c matrix. - ttddMultiplication [or equivalents like product]
Mathematics: Answer the following about matrices. For two-by-two matrices, this quantity is equal to the product of the top left and lower right entries, minus the product of the top right and lower left. In general, this quantity can be calculated with expansion by minors. - ttddDeterminant
Mathematics: Answer the following about matrices. A group described by the word "general" and this adjective consists of invertible matrices under multiplication. A function on a vector space which can be represented by a matrix is said to be this kind of transformation. The field of math which studies matrices is known as this kind of algebra. This property is held by continuous functions which satisfy Cauchy's functional equations, meaning that "f" of "a" plus "f" of "b" equals "f" of "a" plus "b". Non-constant functions of this type always have exactly one zero. Equations for graphs of this type can be expressed in point-slope or slope intercept form. Identify this adjective, which describes functions with constant slope. - ttddLinear [accept lines]
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer some questions about quadrilaterals. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. QUIZ [spell out when reading] is a quadrilateral. The length of segment QI is 10, the length of segment UZ is 12, and those two segments are perpendicular. What is the area of QUIZ? - ttdd60 [half the product of the diagonals]
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer some questions about quadrilaterals. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. BOWL [spell out when reading] is a trapezoid with side BO parallel to side WL. The height of the trapezoid is 12. Segment BO has length 7, segment OW has length 20, and segment LB has length 13. What is the length of segment WL? - ttdd28 [5 + 7 + 16]
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer some questions about quadrilaterals. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. The area of quadrilaterals inscribed in these shapes can be computed using Brahmagupta's formula. A quadrilateral can be inscribed in this type of shape if and only if the four perpendicular bisectors meet at one point. Ptolemy's theorem relates the lengths of the sides and diagonals of a quadrilateral which can be inscribed in this type of shape. The "power-of-a-point" theorem relates the lengths of line segments which intersect these shapes. It is impossible to construct a square with the same area as one of these shapes because pi is transcendental. These shapes consist of the set of points equidistant from the center. Name these shapes whose area is equal to pi times their radius squared. - ttddCircles [do not accept or prompt on other types of curves]
Mathematics: Answer the following about impossible things. The Abel-Ruffini theorem guarantees that there's no general formula for solving these types of equations of degree five or more. Quadratic and cubic equations are specific kinds of these equations. - ttddPolynomials
Mathematics: Answer the following about impossible things. It is impossible to trisect a given angle using a straightedge and this other geometric tool which permits drawing circles with an arbitrary center and radius. - ttddCompass
Mathematics: Answer the following about impossible things. The Lebesgue form of this mathematical operation allows it to be generalized to sets which are not intervals, something that was previously impossible. This mathematical operation is formally computed by taking a series of tagged partitions which increase in fineness; that definition is named for Riemann, who also names a common method of approximating this mathematical operation using rectangles. This operation is the opposite of differentiation, according to the fundamental theorem of calculus. Identify this operation which gives the area under a curve. - ttddIntegration [accept Integral, prompt on "area under a curve" or "antidifferentiation" or "antiderivative"]
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions about combinatorics. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The North High School quiz bowl club has eight students, three of whom know science. How many ways are there to choose a four-person team from these eight students, provided that exactly one of the members of the team must know science? The order of the team members doesn't matter. - ttdd30
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions about combinatorics. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. The South High School quiz bowl club, meanwhile, has ten students, four of whom know literature. How many ways are there to choose a four-person team from these ten students, provided that exactly one of the members of the team must know literature? Again, the order of team members doesn't matter. - ttdd80
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions about combinatorics. You will have 30 seconds for the team questions. If order doesn't matter, the number of ways to choose two people from a group of this many people is sixty-six. The regular polyhedron with this many sides has thirty edges and twenty vertices, and it is the only regular polyhedron with pentagonal faces. This number of degrees is equal to pi over fifteen radians. This is the number of ways to choose an outfit if you have four different pairs of pants and three different shirts. Give the number of sides that a dodecagon has. - ttdd12
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning angles. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. If angle A measures three x plus seven degrees, angle B measures five x plus eleven degrees, and angles A and B are complementary angles, what is the measure of the smaller angle? - ttdd34 degrees
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning angles. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. If angle A measures four x plus eight degrees, angle B measures six x plus twenty-two degrees, and angles A and B form a linear pair, what is the measure of the smaller angle? - ttdd68 degrees
Mathematics: Pencil and paper ready. Answer the following questions concerning angles. You will have 30 seconds for team questions. Toss-Up: One of these objects has been shown to paradoxically topologically evert into itself by Stephen Smale, and simply connected closed three-manifolds are always homeomorphic to one of these objects by the Poincare conjecture. Pi times the square root of two all over three is the densest packing of these objects, and triangles on them have angles summing to greater than one hundred eighty degrees. Great circles are analogous to lines on these objects, and the coordinate system named after them contains the azimuthal angle, the polar angle, and the distance. With a volume equal to four-thirds pi radius cubed, identify these solids that are the three-dimensional analogue of the circle. - ttddSpheres