Answer the following about circuit quantities. This quantity⸴ which is measured in Farads⸴ measures the ability of certain devices to store charge. - ttddCapacitance
Answer the following about circuit quantities. This quantity⸴ which is alternatively called potential difference⸴ has units of Joules per Coulomb. - ttddVoltage
Answer the following about circuit quantities. The mean square voltage of Johnson-Nyquist noise is proportional to temperature times this quantity. For an RC circuit⸴ capacitance times this quantity is equal to the time constant. EMF minus current times the ˈˈinternalˈˈ form of this quantity is equal to the voltage drop across a battery. Power can be calculated by squaring the current and multiplying by this quantity that is equal to voltage divided by current according to Ohm's Law. Name this quantity⸴ measured in ohms⸴ that characterizes a material's opposition to the flow of current. - ttddResistance
Answer these questions related to the periodic table of elements. Group 18 on the periodic table contains these nonreactive elements that have a complete p orbital. - ttddNoble gases [or inert gases]
Answer these questions related to the periodic table of elements. This quantity tends to increase as one moves towards the top and right of the periodic table. Fluorine has the highest value for this property on the Mulliken scale. - ttddElectronegativity
Answer these questions related to the periodic table of elements. The Jahn-Teller distortion most commonly occurs in octahedral compounds of these elements. These elements contain nine valence orbitals⸴ so they are described by the eighteen-electron rule. Crystal field theory predicts the color produced by coordination complexes of these elements. All ferromagnetic elements are members of this group of elements⸴ which have partially filled d orbitals. Name these elements that comprise the central region of the periodic table and include cobalt and nickel. - ttddTransition metals [or transition elements; prompt on ˈˈmetalsˈˈ]
Answer the following about the work of Albert Einstein. Einstein won a Nobel Prize for his explanation of this effect⸴ in which light causes electrons to be ejected from a material. - ttddPhotoelectric effect
Answer the following about the work of Albert Einstein. Einstein's model of this quantity treats each atom of a material as a quantum harmonic oscillator. This is the measure of heat needed to raise a substance's temperature one degree Celsius. - ttddSpecific heat capacity [or heat capacity]
Answer the following about the work of Albert Einstein. Einstein proposed that this phenomenon was caused by supercurrents carried by molecular chains. The Fermi velocity is used to calculate the coherence length of this phenomenon. The two types of this phenomenon are distinguished by whether they expel magnetic fields⸴ which is called the Meissner effect. The interaction of two electrons in a Cooper pair is used to explain this phenomenon in BCS theory. Name this phenomenon in which a material's resistance to the flow of current is zero. - ttddSuperconductivity [accept word forms]
Answer the following regarding atomic structure. This English scientist measured the mass of the streams of electrons emitted by a cathode ray tube during his work which resulted in the discovery of the electron. - ttddJ.J. Thomson
Answer the following regarding atomic structure. This English scientist's atomic theory claimed that atoms cannot be subdivided and atoms of different elements can combine in whole-number ratios to form compounds. - ttddJohn Dalton
Answer the following regarding atomic structure. This man is the first namesake of a theorem claiming that the thermal average of magnetization is zero. The magnetic moment of an electron is defined by his namesake ˈˈmagneton.ˈˈ This man defended the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics in a series of debates with Einstein. The average distance between a proton and electron in a hydrogen atom is his namesake ˈˈradius.ˈˈ Name this student of Ernst Rutherford whose model of the atom proposed that electrons orbit the nucleus in discrete energy levels. - ttddNiels Bohr
Answer the following questions about ideal gases. This law states that at a fixed volume⸴ the pressure of a gas is directly proportional to the gas's absolute temperature. - ttddGay-Lussac's Law [or Amonton's Law]
Answer the following questions about ideal gases. This theory models ideal gases as volumeless particles that are in constant motion and have no intermolecular interactions. - ttddKinetic molecular theory
Answer the following questions about ideal gases. For an ideal gas⸴ this quantity is proportional to temperature to the three halves power according to Sutherland's formula. Drag force is proportional to radius times velocity times this quantity by Stoke's Law. The ratio of inertial forces to the force caused by this property defines the Reynolds number. If this quantity for a material does not change with increasing stress⸴ then the material is Newtonian. It is measured in poise and has dynamic and kinematic types. Name this quantity that characterizes a fluid's resistance to flow. - ttddViscosity
Name these laws of physics. The formal definition of this law sets force equal to the time derivative of momentum. - ttddNewton's 2nd Law of Motion [prompt on partial answer]
Name these laws of physics. This law relates the electromotive force to the time derivative of the magnetic flux. It is commonly called the law of induction. - ttddFaraday's Law
Name these laws of physics. This law can be rewritten using a quantity symbolized by the letter mu⸴ the reduced mass⸴ and Joseph Privat de Molieres proved one case of this law. Isaac Newton derived a more general version of this law⸴ which contains a constant term equal to four pi squared over big G times total mass. This law states that the semi-major axis of an orbit cubed is proportional to the orbital period squared. Name this last of a set of laws of planetary motion named after a German astronomer. - ttddKepler's Third Law of Planetary Motion [prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following about chemical processes. The Castner-Kellner process⸴ which produces hydroxides⸴ is an example of this type of process. Hydrogen gas and oxygen are produced when water undergoes this process. - ttddElectrolysis [prompt on ˈˈdecompositionˈˈ]
Answer the following about chemical processes. This compound is reacted with oxygen in the first step of the Ostwald process to produce nitric acid. Iron-based catalysts are utilized in the synthesis of this compound. - ttddAmmonia [or NH3; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈammoniumˈˈ]
Answer the following about chemical processes. This compound is reacted with sodium chloride in the first step of the Leblanc process⸴ which produces sodium carbonate. Gay-Lussac modified a process that produces this compound that was replaced by a modern one that uses a vanadium oxide catalyst. By definition⸴ superacids are stronger than this acid. Sulfur trioxide and oleum are produced as byproducts of this compound's synthesis through the contact process. Name this strong diprotic acid with chemical formula H2SO4. - ttddSulfuric acid [or oil of vitriol; accept H2SO4 before mentioned]
Answer the following questions related to heat. This law states that the entropy of a perfect crystal approaches zero as temperature approaches absolute zero. - ttddThird Law of Thermodynamics [prompt on partial answer; accept Nernst Heat Theorem]
Answer the following questions related to heat. This scientist's formulation of the second law states that heat can never flow from a cooler to a hotter body. With Clapeyron⸴ he names an equation that relates vapor pressure to temperature. - ttddRudolf Clausius
Answer the following questions related to heat. This scientist is the first namesake of a phenomenon that occurs when air masses with different velocities come in contact. With Max Planck⸴ he names a statement of the second law of thermodynamics that implies that heat engines cannot have one hundred perfect efficiency. This scientist co-names an effect in which gases cool when expanded during a throttling process with James Joule. Name this scientist who gives his name to a temperature scale that is 273.15 degrees lower than the Celsius scale. - ttdd1st Baron Lord Kelvin [or William Thomson]
Give the following related to fluids. This notoriously difficult to solve set of differential equations relate the velocity⸴ temperature⸴ pressure⸴ and density of moving fluids. They are the basis for computation in fluid dynamics. - ttddNavier-Stokes equations [prompt on partial answer]
Give the following related to fluids. The pressure of a static fluid is equal to this quantity times gravitational acceleration times height. The bulk modulus is equal to this quantity times the derivative of pressure with respect to this quantity⸴ and water has its highest value for this quantity at four degrees Celsius. - ttddMass Density
Give the following related to fluids. This quantity names a type of frequency that characterizes vertical oscillations of stratified fluid parcels⸴ the Brunt-Väisälä frequency. This quantity⸴ rather than density⸴ drives motion according to the Boussinesq approximation. The effects of pressure changes on the magnitude of this force is demonstrated by a Cartesian Diver. Its magnitude is equal to pressure times volume times acceleration due to gravity⸴ and it is balanced by the weight of fluid displaced according to a Archimedesˈs principle. Name this upward force exerted by fluids. - ttddBuoyancy [or buoyant force]
Answer these questions about calculations involving the moment of inertia. For the rotation of a hoop about a diameter⸴ the moment of inertia equals mass times radius squared times this constant. Doubling the distance between two bodies will cause their gravitational potential energy to change by this factor. - ttdd½ [or one-half; or 0.5]
Answer these questions about calculations involving the moment of inertia. For the rotation of a rod about a point⸴ moment of inertia is equal to mass times radius squared times this other constant. The Homestake experiment detected this fraction of the number of expected neutrinos from the sun. - ttdd⅓ [or one-third]
Answer these questions about calculations involving the moment of inertia. This scientist names a set of rotation equations that set the applied torque on a rigid body proportional to the inertial matrix. He is the alphabetically first namesake of an equation in which the position derivative of the Lagrangian is set equal to the time derivative of the partial derivative of the Lagrangian with respect to velocity. That equation⸴ which he co-names with Lagrange⸴ is the fundamental equation in calculus of variations. Name this Swiss scientist whose namesake number is approximately equal to 2.72. - ttddLeonhard Euler
Answer the following about reaction kinetics. The activation energy of a reaction can be calculated by plotting this function of the rate constant against the reciprocal of temperature and finding the slope. - ttddNatural logarithm [or ln; prompt on ˈˈlogˈˈ or ˈˈlogarithmˈˈ]
Answer the following about reaction kinetics. These high energy states exist at the maximum potential of a reaction coordinate diagram. They are represented by a double dagger symbol and are described by the Eyring equation. - ttddTransition states
Answer the following about reaction kinetics. This quantity times temperature divided by Planckˈs constant is equal to the pre-exponential term of the Eyring equation. The probability of a microstate in the canonical ensemble is equal to free energy divided by this constant times temperature. The entropy of a system is equal to the natural log of the number of microstates times this constant⸴ and it is equal to the gas constant divided by Avogadro's number. Name this constant equal to 1.38 times ten to the twenty-third Joules per Kelvin⸴ which is symbolized k sub b. - ttddBoltzmann's constant [accept kb before mentioned]
Answer the following questions about particle physics. Neutrinos⸴ tauons⸴ muons⸴ and electrons are flavors of what class of particles that have a name coming from the Greek for ˈˈlightˈˈ? - ttddLeptons
Answer the following questions about particle physics. Baryons and mesons belong to what class of particles that contains all particles consisting of quarks? - ttddHadrons
Answer the following questions about particle physics. A theory named after this property introduces gauge coupling unification to resolve the hierarchy problem. Thermal disequilibrium⸴ baryon number violation⸴ and a breaking of one type of this property constitute the Sakharov conditions⸴ and each half-integer spin particle is associated with an integer spin particle according to a theory named after it. The violation of one form of this property was observed during the decay of neutral kaons by Cronin and Fitch. Fermions and bosons are paired in the ˈˈsuperˈˈ form of what property that sees the weak force violates its CP type? - ttddSymmetry [accept supersymmetry; accept CP symmetry; accept parity symmetry]
Alexander Borodin wasn't just a composer. He was also a chemist! Answer these questions about him. Borodin discovered the aldol reaction⸴ in which two of these compounds combine. What carbonyl group containing compounds form a silver mirror when combined with Tollen's reagent? - ttddAldehydes
Alexander Borodin wasn't just a composer. He was also a chemist! Answer these questions about him. Borodin was a rival of what German chemist⸴ who first described the six-carbon ring structure of benzene? - ttddAugust Kekulé
Alexander Borodin wasn't just a composer. He was also a chemist! Answer these questions about him. These elements are reacted with the silver salts of carboxylic acids in the Borodin-Hunsdiecker reaction. The addition of these elements through a free radical mechanism is a common example of the reactivity-selectivity principle. The potassium salt of one element in this group is reacted with hydrogen peroxide in a common clock reaction. Neil Bartlett produced the first noble gas compounds by combining xenon with an element in this group. This is the only group that contains elements in all three states of matter at standard conditions. Name this group of elements that includes iodine and fluorine. - ttddHalogens [or Group 17]
Answer these questions about quantum mechanics. This principle asserts that each quantum state is the sum of at least two other distinct states. It is responsible for things like electron diffraction and delayed choice quantum eraser experiments. - ttddQuantum superposition principle [accept word forms]
Answer these questions about quantum mechanics. This phenomenon occurs when a measurement reduces a wavefunction from a superposition of quantum states to a single state. For Schrodinger's cat⸴ this phenomenon occurs when the box is opened. - ttddWavefunction collapse [prompt on partial]
Answer these questions about quantum mechanics. This system is used to predict the absorbance wavelengths of molecules with strongly conjugated pi networks⸴ such as cyanine dyes. A normalization constant equal to the square root of two over L is multiplied by this system's wavefunction. The energy of this system is equal to n squared times h squared all over eight m L squared⸴ and that energy is found using the time-independent Schrodinger equation and applying the system's boundary conditions⸴ which state that the potential energy is zero inside and infinite outside a defined area. Name this simple model in quantum mechanics which confines an object to a rectangular region. - ttddParticle in a box [or infinite potential well; or infinite square well; prompt on partial answer]
Answer the following questions regarding advances in green chemistry. This compound's supercritical form was developed by Dow Chemical as a nonhazardous blowing agent for polystyrene production. That supercritical form is used as solvent in caffeine extraction. - ttddCarbon dioxide [or CO2]
Answer the following questions regarding advances in green chemistry. This compound⸴ with chemical formula N2H4⸴ is industrially produced by the Olin Raschig process. It is used in rocket fuels. - ttddHydrazine
Answer the following questions regarding advances in green chemistry. Robert Grubbs developed a hazard-free method of redistributing these structures using a ruthenium-based catalyst. In IR spectroscopy⸴ these structures have a strong peak at one thousand six hundred sixty inverse centimeters. These structures cannot be placed at the bridgehead of a ring system according to Bredt's rule. These structures are redistributed through olefin metathesis reactions⸴ and their orientation determines whether they are E or Z. The overlap of orbitals in these structures creates one pi and one sigma bond. Name these covalent bonds that are possessed by molecular oxygen⸴ in which four electrons are shared between two atoms. - ttddCarbon-carbon double bonds
Answer the following questions about phase transitions. This scientist's theory of phase transitions defines the free energy as a power series of the order parameter. He developed a theory of superfluidity based on theoretical quasi particles called rotons. - ttddLev Davidovich Landau
Answer the following questions about phase transitions. The two-dimensional version of this model introduces phase transitions⸴ unlike its 1-D version. This model considers the magnetic moments of spins at fixed points in a lattice and is used to model ferromagnetism. - ttddIsing model
Answer the following questions about phase transitions. The lower limit of one form of this process is equal to h bar times the natural linewidth⸴ over two times Boltzmannˈs constant. The removal of a magnetic field at constant entropy causes this process to occur in adiabatic demagnetization. The loss of momentum as a result of the Doppler effect causes the ˈˈlaserˈˈ type of this process⸴ and it occurs during the second step of the Carnot cycle. According to a law named after this process⸴ its rate is proportional to the temperature difference between two bodies. Newton names a law of what process⸴ in which heat is transferred away from a system? - ttddCooling [or refrigeration; accept specific types; accept answers indicating that temperature or energy is decreasing; prompt on ˈˈheat transferˈˈ]
Answer the following questions about molecular orbital theory. These molecular orbitals are formed from the overlap of out-of-phase atomic orbitals. They are denoted by an asterisk and are higher in energy than their counterparts. - ttddAntibonding molecular orbital
Answer the following questions about molecular orbital theory. This quantity is equal to the number of electrons in bonding molecular orbitals minus the number of electrons in antibonding molecular orbitals divided by two. - ttddBond order
Answer the following questions about molecular orbital theory. The hybrid method B3LYP is the most commonly used functional in a method named after this quantity that calculates molecular orbitals. In plasmas⸴ the Debye length is proportional to temperature divided by that form of this quantity⸴ and that quantity is the probability of an electron occupying an infinitesimal point. The divergence of the current form of this quantity is equal to the negative time derivative of the charge form of this quantity. That charge has units of Coulombs per meter cubed. Name this quantity whose SI unit is kilograms per meter cubed and that can be found by dividing mass by volume. - ttddDensity [accept Density functional theory; accept electron density; accept charge density; accept current density]
Answer these questions about geology related to the state of Maine. Maine's Mount Desert Island is so named because of its barren⸴ rocky mountaintops which are primarily composed of this igneous rock. This rock⸴ which comes in gray⸴ white⸴ and pink forms⸴ is primarily composed of feldspar and quartz. - ttddGranite
Answer these questions about geology related to the state of Maine. Passamaquoddy Bay⸴ in eastern Maine⸴ experiences unusually strong instances of this phenomenon. This phenomenon can have ˈˈspringˈˈ and ˈˈneapˈˈ varieties. - ttddTides
Answer these questions about geology related to the state of Maine. So-called ˈˈerraticˈˈ boulders⸴ a common sight in Maine⸴ are usually transported by these things. These things cause the formation of large⸴ narrow ridges of sandier soil known as eskers⸴ which are caused by the deposition of sediment from water flowing under these things. Fjords like Maine's Somes Sound are narrow⸴ steep-sided bays formed by erosion from these things. These things leave terminal moraines when they retreat⸴ and they covered Maine⸴ along with the rest of the northern United States⸴ during the last Ice Age. Identify these large⸴ flowing structures composed of ice. - ttddGlaciers [accept Ice sheets⸴ but do not accept or prompt on ˈˈice capsˈˈ because those do not move]
Answer these questions about systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. One well-known chaotic system is the Lorentz attractor⸴ whose graph is often said to look like the wings of this animal. Chaos theory is often explained using an ˈˈeffectˈˈ named for this animal. - ttddButterfly
Answer these questions about systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. Particles whose motion is defined in terms of their jerk can exhibit chaotic behavior through sensitivity to initial conditions. Jerk is the third derivative of position⸴ making it the rate of change of this quantity⸴ which is zero if the net force on an object is zero. - ttddAcceleration
Answer these questions about systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. Attaching one of these objects to the end of another one of them forms a system which behaves chaotically. The development of an accurate clock for ships was hindered by the fact that clocks based on these objects do not work on rolling ships. The ˈˈcompoundˈˈ type of these objects has its mass evenly distributed over its length. One of these objects named for Foucault [foo-coh] was used to demonstrate the Earth's rotation. The behavior of these objects can be described using the small angle approximation. These objects' period does not depend on their amplitude. Identify these objects⸴ which consist of a suspended weight which swings freely. - ttddPendulums
Answer the following about fluorine. Fluorine is an extremely reactive element⸴ in part because it has the highest value of this quantity often measured on the Pauling scale. - ttddElectronegativity
Answer the following about fluorine. Because of its high electronegativity⸴ fluorine is commonly used in experiments which attempt to produce compounds including this group of elements⸴ such as a compound with six fluorines and the heaviest one of these elements. - ttddNoble gases [accept Group 18]
Answer the following about fluorine. A compound of this element and fluorine is often produced by reacting this element with chlorine trifluoride. That compound is forced through membranes in a process known as gaseous diffusion⸴ which along with gas centrifugation is one of the most commonly used methods of enriching this element. When this element contains a lower than normal concentration of its 235 isotope⸴ it is known as ˈˈdepleted.ˈˈ Name this element which is processed from yellowcake and⸴ with plutonium⸴ is used in fissile nuclear weapons. - ttddUranium
Answer the following about chemical laws. Boyle's law states that there is an inverse relationship between pressure and this other property of a gas when kept at constant temperature. - ttddVolume
Answer the following about chemical laws. Le Chatelier's principle⸴ also known as the ˈˈlawˈˈ of this type of chemical system⸴ states that a system in this state will adjust itself in response to outside stimuli. - ttddEquilibrium
Answer the following about chemical laws. One correction to this statement is expressed as an infinite series of powers of the molar density and is known as the virial expansion. Another equation which attempts to correct this equation includes terms for the size of molecules and intermolecular attractions and is named for Van der Waals. This statement incorporates Boyle's Law⸴ Charles's Law⸴ and Avogadro's Law⸴ and a constant in this statement is the product of Boltzmann's constant and Avogadro's constant and is expressed as R. Name this chemical law which states that the product of pressure and volume is equal to a constant times the product of temperature and the number of moles. - ttddIdeal gas law
Give the following about optics. This law is typically written as n-sub-one sine theta-sub-one equals n-sub-two sine theta-sub-two. It is used to calculate the angles of incidence and refraction. - ttddSnell's Law [or Descartesˈs Law; prompt on ˈˈLaw of Refractionˈˈ]
Give the following about optics. This quantity is defined as the distance between a lens and the point of convergence. The inverse of this quantity⸴ which is measured in diopters⸴ is optical power. - ttddFocal length [prompt on partial answer]
Give the following about optics. The results of this process can be modeled using a Cornu Spiral. The far-field and near-field forms of this process are described by the Fraunhofer and Fresnel equations. This process is quantified by an equation written as ˈˈtwo d sine theta equals n lambda.ˈˈ That equation is Bragg's Law. This phenomenon produced namesake ˈˈpatternsˈˈ after light passed through a double slit in Young's double-slit experiment. For ten points⸴ name this process in which waves bend around an obstacle. - ttddDiffraction [accept specific types]
Answer some questions about friction. The force of friction is equal to the coefficient of friction times this force⸴ which is named because it is perpendicular to the two surfaces' contact. - ttddNormal force
Answer some questions about friction. Situations in which a block is present on an inclined plane can be solved by using this type of diagram⸴ which shows a system and all the forces acting on it⸴ which are typically indicated with arrows. - ttddFree-body diagram
Answer some questions about friction. A block will slide down an inclined plane if its mass times the force of gravity times this function of the angle of the plane is greater than the force of friction. The magnetic force on a charged particle is equal to the product of the charge⸴ velocity⸴ and magnetic field strength times this function of the angle between the velocity and magnetic field. Torque is equal to force times radius times this function of the angle between the force and the radial arm. The cross product of two vectors has a magnitude equal to the product of their magnitudes times this function of the angle between them⸴ which is why the cross product of two parallel vectors is zero. Name this function whose ratio with the cosine is the tangent. - ttddSine
Answer the following about the work of Nobel Prize-winning scientists from Ohio. Akron native and University of Michigan alumnus Richard Smalley was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his discovery of buckminsterfullerene⸴ also known as buckyballs⸴ which are a form of this element. - ttddCarbon
Answer the following about the work of Nobel Prize-winning scientists from Ohio. Lima native and Ohio State alumnus William Fowler was one of the four authors of the groundbreaking B2FH paper⸴ which was the first to suggest that elements heavier than helium were synthesized by nuclear fusion inside these objects. - ttddStars [accept Supernovas]
Answer the following about the work of Nobel Prize-winning scientists from Ohio. The Gargamelle was an example of a ˈˈchamberˈˈ named for these things⸴ the first of which was invented by Cleveland native Donald Glaser. That ˈˈchamberˈˈ named for these things consists of a vessel filled with a transparent⸴ superheated liquid and is used to detect charged particles. These things are generated through cavitation. The mathematical problem of finding minimal surfaces can be approximated empirically by using these things made from soap. A sorting algorithm named for these things checks pairs of consecutive elements and switches them if they are out of order. Identify these things which can be formed if you breathe out while underwater. - ttddBubbles
Answer the following related to the work of Gustav Kirchhoff. With Robert Bunsen⸴ Kirchhoff discovered two elements in this group on the periodic table. One is used in super accurate atomic clocks⸴ while the other was cooled to produce the first Bose-Einstein Condensates. - ttddAlkali metals [or Group 1; prompt on partial answer; do NOT accept ˈˈalkaline (earth) metalsˈˈ]
Answer the following related to the work of Gustav Kirchhoff. Emissivity characterizes a materialˈs effectiveness at emitting this type of radiation. Kirchhoff coined the name for these objects. - ttddBlack body or Black bodies
Answer the following related to the work of Gustav Kirchhoff. The number of spanning trees in a graph can be calculated using Kirchhoffˈs theorem named for these non-tree objects. A set of four anticommuting examples of these objects are used to solve the Dirac equation. The spin operators are obtained using a set of these objects named for Pauli that are Hermitian. Heisenberg⸴ Born⸴ and Jordan created a formulation of quantum mechanics named after them that is contrasted with wave mechanics. The solutions of the characteristic polynomial are the eigenvalues of these objects. Name these rectangular arrays of numbers. - ttddMatrix [or matrices]
Answer the following about weather on other bodies in the Solar System. This extrasolar storm has been continuously observed for over one hundred fifty years. It has a latitude of twenty-two degrees south and is a high-pressure anticyclonic rotation. - ttddGreat Red Spot
Answer the following about weather on other bodies in the Solar System. This moon has experienced a temperature increase of over five percent in recent years. This is the largest moon in the Solar System with a retrograde orbit. - ttddTriton
Answer the following about weather on other bodies in the Solar System. A spiral dust cloud forms regularly around Arsia Mons on this solar system body. Spiral troughs in the polar region of this body are caused by katabatic winds which transport ice. A large donut-shaped cloud forms in the morning and dissipates by the afternoon during the same time every year at the north pole of this body. This planet is affected by planet-wide dust storms such as the one which was in progress when the Mariner 9 probe arrived. Snow on this planet was observed by the Phoenix lander. Identify this planet where greenhouse gases like methane have been detected in trace amounts by the Curiosity rover. - ttddMars
Answer the following about the result of shining light on things. Some chemicals are phototoxic⸴ meaning that they become toxic upon being exposed to light; such chemicals include bergapten⸴ which contains two of these structures⸴ and tetracycline⸴ which contains four. One of these chemical structures is found in benzene. - ttddRings
Answer the following about the result of shining light on things. Solar cells⸴ which generate electricity when they absorb light⸴ are being built increasingly with perovskite⸴ an inexpensive mineral consisting of calcium and an oxide of this element. A dioxide of this element is used in white pigments⸴ and this element has atomic number twenty-two. - ttddTitanium
Answer the following about the result of shining light on things. Photoresistors⸴ whose resistance depends on the amount of light reaching them⸴ are frequently made using a sulfide of this element. This is the least common element in Wood's metal or bendalloy⸴ an alloy known for a low melting point. The original definition of the ångström [ong-struhm] was based on the wavelength of a red spectral line of this element. This compound is found in the mineral greenockite⸴ which is a common impurity in sphalerite⸴ or zinc ore. The selenide of this element is a pigment known as ˈˈ[this element] redˈˈ which is commonly used by artists for its vibrant colors. Identify this highly toxic metal element with atomic number forty-eight and symbol Cd. - ttddCadmium
Answer the following about the chalcogens. The chalcogens are another term used to refer to Group 16 of the periodic table⸴ whose lightest element is this one with atomic number eight. - ttddOxygen
Answer the following about the chalcogens. The chalcogens have this many valence electrons. Elements with this many valence electrons typically form two covalent bonds. - ttddSix
Answer the following about the chalcogens. Three of the five allotropes of selenium⸴ a member of the chalcogen group⸴ have this color. This color is produced by performing a flame test on mercury or lithium. An allotrope of phosphorus with this color consists of an amorphous network and can be obtained by heating the less stable white phosphorus. This is the color of the gas discharge emission of neon⸴ which means that neon lamps actually containing neon will glow this color. Identify this color which is commonly used in ball-and-stick diagrams to represent oxygen. - ttddRed
Name some famous physics experiments. This experiment⸴ performed by Robert Millikan and Harvey Fletcher⸴ suspended the namesake objects between charged plates to measure the charge of an electron. - ttddOil drop experiment
Name some famous physics experiments. This experiment conducted at what is now Case Western Reserve University attempted⸴ and failed⸴ to confirm the existence of a luminiferous aether. - ttddMichelson-Morley experiment
Name some famous physics experiments. The purpose of this experiment was to test the Bohr-Sommerfeld hypothesis. This experiment attempted to sort particles based on a certain property by using the phenomenon of torque-induced precession. In this experiment⸴ silver atoms traveled through a magnetic field and were uniformly deflected either up or down to the same points⸴ demonstrating that spin is discrete. Identify this experiment⸴ which determined that angular momentum is quantized⸴ conducted by two German physicists. - ttddStern-Gerlach experiment
Answer these questions about electric circuit laws. Give the most common expression of Ohm's Law⸴ which relates one physical quantity in a circuit as the product of two other circuit quantities. - ttddVoltage equals current times resistance [accept V for voltage⸴ I for current⸴ and R for resistance⸴ accept V=IR]
Answer these questions about electric circuit laws. This man's current law states that the sum of currents meeting at any point in a circuit is equal to zero. - ttddKirchhoff
Answer these questions about electric circuit laws. Tellegen's theorem states that in any electrical network⸴ the sum over all branches of the product of the current through the branch and this quantity over the branch is equal to zero. In vacuum tube electronics⸴ the term ˈˈhigh tensionˈˈ refers to a high value of this quantity. The derivative of this quantity with respect to distance is equal to the electric field. One of Kirchoff's circuit laws states that the sum of this value around a closed loop is equal to zero. Identify this quantity which is measured in volts. - ttddPotential difference [or Voltage; do not accept ˈˈpotential energyˈˈ]
Answer the following about the Grignard reaction. The Grignard reaction uses the Grignard reagent⸴ which contains an atom of this alkaline earth metal. This element burns extremely bright⸴ and it is the second-lightest element in its column of the periodic table. - ttddMagnesium
Answer the following about the Grignard reaction. The Grignard reagent functions as a nucleophile in the reaction⸴ meaning that it donates an electron pair and therefore is an example of the Lewis type of these chemical compounds. - ttddBases
Answer the following about the Grignard reaction. In the Grignard reaction⸴ the reagent targets an instance of this functional group. An enol reacts with an instance of this functional group in an aldol condensation. Imides and acid anhydrides contain two copies of this functional group. This functional group is present in an amide group⸴ and it is the defining component of an aldehyde or ketone group. Carbon dioxide contains two instances of this functional group. Identify this functional group in which a carbon atom is double-bonded to an oxygen atom. - ttddCarbonyl
Answer the following about pulsars. A type of these astronomical objects⸴ the ˈˈpulsar windˈˈ type⸴ is powered by pulsars and also known as a plerion. Another type of these objects⸴ the ˈˈplanetaryˈˈ type⸴ is caused by emissions from stars. - ttddNebulae
Answer the following about pulsars. The first pulsar signal to be observed was given the name LGM-1⸴ an abbreviation for this term often playfully used to refer to aliens. - ttddLittle green men
Answer the following about pulsars. The pulsar B1913+16 emits powerful gravitational radiation because of this property⸴ and it was the first pulsar discovered with this property. An adjustment in the distribution of the mass in a star with this property caused a supernova observed by Tycho Brahe. Cataclysmic variable stars⸴ which undergo irregular increases in brightness⸴ are this type of star. Planets in this type of system can have S-type and P-type orbits. Sirius is an example of this type of star system in which one member is a white dwarf. Identify this type of star system in which two stars orbit each other. - ttddBinary star
Answer these questions about intermolecular forces. This equation named for a Dutch scientist modifies the ideal gas law to accommodate for intermolecular forces with its coefficients a and b. - ttddvan der Waals equation
Answer these questions about intermolecular forces. Protein structures can be affected by bonds which form between the thiol groups of cysteine molecules⸴ which contain this element⸴ which can form eight-member rings in its native structure. - ttddSulfur
Answer these questions about intermolecular forces. The strength of hydrogen bonding in this compound explains why its boiling point is higher than other hydrogen chalcogenides. A form of this compound in which one of its constituent atoms is replaced with a different isotope is used as a neutron moderator in nuclear reactors and is called the ˈˈheavyˈˈ type of this compound. The presence of this compound in Earth's atmosphere causes faraway objects to be seen with a blue tinge because of Rayleigh scattering. The rigid grid formed by the solid form of this compound causes it to be less dense than the liquid form. Identify this ˈˈuniversal solventˈˈ which makes up Earth's oceans. - ttddWater [or H2O or dihydrogen monoxide or oxidane or hydrogen oxide]
Identify the following ˈˈeffects.ˈˈ What effect⸴ named for two 19th century scientists⸴ is a throttling process that models the change in a gas or liquid when it is forced through a valve? - ttddJoule-Thomson Effect
Identify the following ˈˈeffects.ˈˈ What effect is exemplified when light scatters as it is directed at a colloid? - ttddTyndall Effect
Identify the following ˈˈeffects.ˈˈ This effect is used to produce neutral atoms at extremely cold temperatures in a laser cooling technique known as the magneto-optical trap. This effect is called ˈˈinverseˈˈ when absorption lines are involved. This effect turns into the Paschen-Back effect when present in the strong field⸴ and this effect is analogous to the Stark effect when an electric field is present. Identify this effect where spectral lines split when introduced to a magnetic field. - ttddZeeman Effect [Prompt on ˈˈPaschen-Back Effect⸴ˈˈ DO NOT prompt or accept the ˈˈStark Effectˈˈ]
Answer the following questions about chemical separations. In what technique do compounds separate by preferentially dissolving in one of two solvents? - ttddliquid-liquid extraction
Answer the following questions about chemical separations. In this other technique⸴ compounds are dissolved in hot solvent⸴ which is slowly cooled⸴ precipitating out the desired compound. - ttddrecrystallization
Answer the following questions about chemical separations. An imperforate basket setup for this technique is used to remove water from sludge. Cesium chloride is used during one form of this technique that separates RNA from DNA. The size of ribosomal subunits are measured by this technique. The time required for this technique is equal to the ratio of the clearing factor and sedimentation coefficient. This technique was used to identify the mass of DNA in the Meselson-Stahl experiment. This technique results in the formation of a pellet and a supernatant. Name this technique in which a sample is spun at a fast speed to separate components of a solution. - ttddcentrifugation [accept word forms]
Answer the following questions about recent Nobel Prize in Physics winners. Barish⸴ Thorne⸴ and Weiss received the 2017 Nobel for their work on this project⸴ a collaboration between MIT and Caltech. This project detected gravitational waves 2016. - ttddLIGO [or Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory]
Answer the following questions about recent Nobel Prize in Physics winners. Akasaki⸴ Amano⸴ and Nakamura won the 2014 Nobel for inventing the ˈˈblueˈˈ version of these devices⸴ which release energy through the combination of electrons with holes. - ttddLEDs [or Light-Emitting Diodes]
Answer the following questions about recent Nobel Prize in Physics winners. One of these phenomena that preserves quasi long-range order was characterized by Thouless⸴ Haldane⸴ and Kosterlitz⸴ the 2016 Nobel Prize winners. Kenneth Wilson applied renormalization group theory to these phenomena. The broken symmetry caused by these phenomena is described by the order parameter. Second-order types of these phenomena can occur at the Néel and Curie points. The first-order types of these phenomena involve the transfer of latent heat. Name these phenomena that include vaporization and melting. - ttddphase transitions [or phase changes]
Name these elements commonly used organic chemistry. The Wittig reaction reacts a carbonyl with a ylide containing what element that is typically found in a plus five oxidation state? - ttddPhosphorus [or P]
Name these elements commonly used organic chemistry. What metal catalyzes the Suzuki and Heck cross-coupling reactions? It is found below Nickel and above Platinum on the periodic table. - ttddPalladium [or Pd]
Name these elements commonly used organic chemistry. This element's acetate adds across a double bond before being hydrolyzed and reduced with sodium borohydride in a reaction used to convert alkenes to alcohols. An anion containing this element and iodine used to detect ammonia in Nessler's reagent. Compounds containing this element have a strong binding affinity to thiols. This element's chloride⸴ calomel⸴ is used as a standard electrode. Alloys of this element are called amalgams. The pigment vermillion is made from a red ore of this element⸴ cinnabar. Name this metal that is a liquid at room temperature. - ttddMercury [or Hg]
Answer the follow questions about electromagnetism. Coulombˈs law predicts that the force between two point charges scales as what power of the distance between them? - ttddinverse square [or -2; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈ2ˈˈ or ˈˈsquareˈˈ]
Answer the follow questions about electromagnetism. This scientist's law⸴ one of the Maxwell's equations⸴ states that the electromotive force is equal to the rate of change of the magnetic flux. - ttddMichael Faraday [or Faraday's law]
Answer the follow questions about electromagnetism. This quantity is multiplied by permittivity and added to polarization in the definition of the displacement field. For linear dielectrics⸴ the polarization is proportional to this quantity. The drift velocity of holes is equal to their mobility times this quantity. A generalization of Ohm's law states that the current density is equal to the product of conductivity and this quantity. This quantity falls off with the third power of distance to a dipole. The divergence of this quantity is equal to charge density divided by vacuum permittivity according to Gauss's law. Name this quantity measured in Newtons per Coulomb⸴ a ˈˈfieldˈˈ produced by moving charges. - ttddelectric field [or E-field; accept just electric or E after ˈˈfieldˈˈ]
Answer the following questions about gases. This quantity is defined as the pressure of an ideal gas with equal temperature and Gibbs free energy as the real gas. It can be thought of as the tendency of a gas to escape a phase. - ttddfugacity
Answer the following questions about gases. What quantity⸴ symbolized Z⸴ is defined as PV over nRT? It equals one for an ideal gas. - ttddcompressibility factor [or compression factor; or gas deviation factor; do NOT accept or prompt on partial answers]
Answer the following questions about gases. One form of this quantity is calculated as 17.5 plus the sum of group contributions by the Joback method. That form of this quantity is expressed as 3 times b. At the critical point⸴ the first and second derivatives of pressure with respect to this quantity are zero. The virial equation is expressed in terms of a power series of either the compressibility factor or this quantity. Kinetic theory assumes that gases have a value of zero for this quantity⸴ which is proportional to temperature according to Charles' Law. Name this quantity⸴ which for a mole of an ideal gas⸴ is equal to about 22.4 Liters. - ttdd(molar) volume
Answer the follow questions about quantum mechanics. The Heisenberg uncertainty principle states that the product of the uncertainties of position and momentum is equal to what expression? - ttddh-bar over 2 [or h over 4 pi; or reduced Planckˈs constant over 2; or Planck's constant over 4 pi; accept equivalents for ˈˈoverˈˈ like ˈˈdivided byˈˈ]
Answer the follow questions about quantum mechanics. According to the time-independent Schrodinger equation⸴ what operator applied on a system's wavefunction is equal to the system's energy times the wavefunction? - ttddHamiltonian [prompt on ˈˈHˈˈ]
Answer the follow questions about quantum mechanics. Interference between positive and negative energy states in this model called ˈˈzitterbewegungˈˈ introduces a correction to its energy called the Darwin term. This model's 2S-one-half and 2P-one-half have different energies not predicted by the Dirac equation⸴ a correction called the Lamb shift. A spin-flip transition in the hyperfine levels of this model produces a spectral line at 21 centimeters. This model is exactly solvable by the Schrodinger atom and has a ground state energy of 13.6 electron volts⸴ which is called the Rydberg constant. Name this quantum mechanical model⸴ which consists of an electron and a proton. - ttddhydrogen atom [prompt on ˈˈHˈˈ]
Name these chemists. This man⸴ who invented dynamite⸴ lends his name to a set of annual prizes given out in Oslo and Stockholm. - ttddAlfred Bernhard Nobel (no-BELL) [accept Nobel Prizes]
Name these chemists. This Russian scientist's most notable contribution was his creation of the periodic table. - ttddDmitri Ivanovich Mendeleyev (MEN-duh-LAY-eff)
Name these chemists. This scientist determined that diamond was an allotrope of carbon⸴ and he correctly noted that water was not a separate element. In his Methods of Chemical Nomenclature⸴ he set up the first widely-used chemical naming system. After experiments in which he heated solids inside closed containers and found no change in weight⸴ he formulated the law of conservation of matter. This scientist discredited the phlogiston theory and named the element that was discovered out of it⸴ oxygen. Identify this ˈˈfather of modern chemistryˈˈ⸴ a French scientist who was guillotined (GEE-uh-teend) during the French Revolution. - ttddAntoine-Laurent de Lavoisier (lah-VWAH-zee-ay OR luh-vwah-ZYAY)
Answer the following about the periodic table. This quantity increases as one moves left and down on the table. Elements with more energy levels will have a larger value of this⸴ which is decreased with increased nuclear charge. - ttddatomic radius [or Van der Waals radius; or covalent radius; or ionic radius; prompt on ˈˈradiusˈˈ]
Answer the following about the periodic table. This number increases as one moves right on the periodic table⸴ and it is simply defined as the number of electrons an atom has on its outermost shell. - ttddvalence electrons
Answer the following about the periodic table. Two elements in this group are responsible for M+2 peaks in mass spectroscopy and can be distinguished from each other based on whether those peaks are at a 3 to 1 or 1 to 1 ratio. The rarest element in this group is created through attacking bismuth-209 with alpha particles. Along with carbon⸴ the lightest of this group of elements is found in Teflon. Another element in this group can be used to test for starch. The two lightest elements of this group form diatomic gases at STP⸴ while another is the only nonmetal to be liquid at room temperature. Name these group (*) 17 elements which include iodine⸴ chlorine⸴ and fluorine. - ttddhalogens [accept group 17 before (*)]
Name these acids. This strong acid⸴ which was called oil of vitriol in antiquity⸴ is made by the lead chamber and contact processes. - ttddsulfuric acid [or H2SO4]
Name these acids. This other strong acid⸴ which is formed from the Ostwald process⸴ can come in red and white fuming varieties. - ttddnitric acid [or HNO3]
Name these acids. A ˈˈtrifluoroˈˈ derivative of this acid is used in reverse phase HPLC to increase resolution. When combined with sodium bi·carbonate⸴ this acid reacts to form short-lived carbonic acid as one of its products. If no water is present in a solution of this acid⸴ it is termed ˈˈglacial.ˈˈ An outdated process for synthesizing this acid makes use of a catalyst containing rhodium⸴ and that process was supplanted by one that uses an iridium catalyst; both of those processes add a carbonyl group to methanol. This acid is made through the Monsanto and Cativa processes. Name this carboxylic acid⸴ which is found in low concentrations in vinegar. - ttddacetic (uh-SEE-tik) acid [or ethanoic acid or CH3COOH or CH3CO2H or C2H4O2]
Answer the following about iron. Iron is the main component of steel⸴ which is made through this process that creates steel out of pig iron. - ttddBessemer process
Answer the following about iron. To prevent iron from rusting⸴ one can perform galvanization on it⸴ which means plating the iron with this other element. - ttddzinc
Answer the following about iron. An iron-containing chemical named after this color is used medically to remove cesium and thallium from the body. A compound named after this color is used to treat methemo·globinemia. In a Bradford assay⸴ solutions that contain protein will turn into this color; the reagent used in Bradford assays is a dye called Coomassie brilliant. A solution of copper in water turns this color. An iron-containing pigment is called the Prussian type of this color. In gaseous and liquid phases⸴ ozone has this color. An indicator named after this color is called bromo·thymol. Name this color that litmus paper turns into when dipped into a basic solution. - ttddblue
Name these types of chemicals. This type of solution is made of two liquids that cannot be separated by distillation. An example of one is 95% ethanol in water. - ttddazeotropes
Name these types of chemicals. Another liquid/liquid mixture is this type of colloid⸴ examples of which include mayonnaise and milk. - ttddemulsions
Name these types of chemicals. One type of this substance contains a carbon-nitrogen double bond⸴ with the nitrogen bound to an R group. That type of this substance is named after (*) Schiff. Along with being a strong nucleophile⸴ n-butyl lithium is one of the strongest examples of this type of chemical. In the inductive effect⸴ the strength of these substances is increased by nearby electropositive groups⸴ such as in guani·dinium. In the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation⸴ the numerator of the log term is the conjugate type. They donate electron pairs according to Lewis theory⸴ and most strong types lose a hydroxide in solution. Name these chemicals with a pH greater than 7. - ttddbases [or Lewis bases; or Bronsted-Lowry bases; or Arrhenius bases; accept imine until (*)]
Answer the following about predicting the future. The Hebert [ay-bear] boxes are a simplistic tool that can be used to determine whether one of these large storm systems will strike Florida. Weather forecasters often rely on data from specialized airplane flights through these systems in order to make predictions about them. - ttddHurricanes [or Tropical cyclones or Tropical storms]
Answer the following about predicting the future. Weather forecasters around the world must take into account the Southern Oscillation⸴ which consists of a cooling phase called La Niña and a warming phase with what other name? - ttddEl Niño
Answer the following about predicting the future. The VAN method claims to have successfully predicted some of these events in Greece. Bakun and Lindh attempted to predict one of these events in Parkfield. Increased radon emissions are often used to attempt to predict these events. Several scientists were charged with manslaughter in Italy for failing to predict one of these events⸴ which killed hundreds of people in L'Aquila. Swarms of these events may signal volcanic eruptions such as the one of Mt. Saint Helens in Washington. Identify these geological events which occur along fault lines. - ttddEarthquakes
Answer the following about organic chemistry. 5-Chloropentanal is an example of what functional group characterized by a carbonyl group at the end of a carbon chain? - ttddAldehydes
Answer the following about organic chemistry. Pyrrole and pyridine are examples of what other functional group characterized by at least one carbon bonded to a nitrogen? - ttddAmines
Answer the following about organic chemistry. When this compound is shown in a Frost diagram⸴ three bonding pi molecular orbitals are shown which indicate its unsaturated nature. In 1929⸴ this compound's flatness was proven by Kathleen Lonsdale using x-ray diffraction. This compound is reacted with acyl chloride or alkyl halide in the Friedel-Crafts Reaction⸴ and a hydrogen is replaced with a methyl group in this compound's derivative⸴ toluene. This compound's structure was theorized when August Kekule [keh- koo-lee] dreamt of a snake biting its own tail. Identify this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon with the formula⸴ C6H6. - ttddBenzene
Answer the following about the work of prominent scientists and researchers. The first steam engine was created by Matthew Boulton and what scientist who lends his name to the SI unit of power? - ttddJames Watt
Answer the following about the work of prominent scientists and researchers. What physicist and author of A Brief History of Time proposed that black holes emit a type of radiation that is often named for him? - ttddStephen Hawking
Answer the following about the work of prominent scientists and researchers. One version of this compound can be created from adipoyl chloride and hexamethylenediamine to demonstrate interfacial polymerization in its namesake ˈˈrope trick.ˈˈ The ˈˈ6ˈˈ variety of this compound was created from caprolactam or CPL by Paul Schlack. The precursor to a third version of this compound is 1⸴6-diaminohexane. The company DuPont began its research on this compound in 1927⸴ and this compound was used for toothbrush bristles. Wallace Carothers developed what material created from synthetic polymers that is often used in women's stockings? - ttddNylon
Answer the following about thermodynamics. Though somewhat theoretical⸴ a French scientist names what most efficient heat engine cycle? This four step cycle sees a gas expanded and compressed. - ttddCarnot Cycle
Answer the following about thermodynamics. What doubly-eponymous equation relates pressure and temperature during phase transitions? - ttddClausius-Clapeyron Equation
Answer the following about thermodynamics. This man names a ˈˈconstructionˈˈ that aids the Van der Waals equation by ensuring stability through making sure that pressure and volume do not increase together. This scientist names a distribution of velocities⸴ and along with Boltzmann⸴ this scientist names a distribution that was initially used to analyze the speeds of ideal gases. This scientist is better known for his work in electromagnetism where he added the ˈˈdisplacement currentˈˈ to Ampere's law. Identify this Scottish scientist who names a set of Four Equations. - ttddJames Clerk Maxwell
Answer the following about collisions. What adjective is used to describe a type of collision in which kinetic energy is not conserved? - ttddInelastic Collisions [DO NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈElasticˈˈ]
Answer the following about collisions. What quantity⸴ symbolized by the Greek letter rho⸴ is conserved in both elastic and inelastic collisions? - ttddMomentum
Answer the following about collisions. Within a frame named for this physical quantity⸴ the total momentum is zero. When an object is affected by different gravitational strengths⸴ this quantity is constant. Rotational inertia is calculated for a axis passing through this point. Momentum is equal to the velocity of this point according to Euler's First Law. This quantity can be calculated for the point⸴ (x⸴y) [ˈˈxˈˈ comma ˈˈyˈˈ] by summing each individual mass divided by the total mass for each respective axis. Identify this 3-word term which describes a point in which an object will balance freely. - ttddCenter of Mass [Prompt on ˈˈCenter of Gravityˈˈ until ˈˈconstantˈˈ is read⸴ afterwards DO NOT accept]
Answer the following about space. What Galilean moon⸴ the third largest moon in the Solar System⸴ has surface features including the craters Valhalla and Asgard and is named for a Greek nymph? - ttddCallisto
Answer the following about space. The outer limits of what region define the boundary of the Solar System? This region first postulated by Ernst Opik is thought to be the origin of long-period comets. - ttddthe Opik-Oort cloud
Answer the following about space. This celestial body's ˈˈCool Loopsˈˈ can be observed near the edges of this body and were studied by Foukal in 1976. This body's temperature over time is the subject of the theoretical ˈˈfaint youngˈˈ paradox. This star is believed to be the sibling of two stars in the Pavo and the Hercules Constellations. This G-type main sequence star's surface has areas darker than their surroundings which are called this body's namesake ˈˈspots.ˈˈ This body consists almost entirely of hydrogen and helium. Identify this celestial body around which all the planets orbit. - ttddThe Sun [Prompt on ˈˈStar(s)ˈˈ]
Answer the following about particle physics. Francois Englert and the namesake physicist were awarded the 2013 Nobel Prize in Physics for what discovering what particle that is nicknamed the ˈˈGod Particle?ˈˈ - ttddHiggs Boson [Prompt on ˈˈBosonˈˈ]
Answer the following about particle physics. Z and W are the two types of what vector bosons that have a spin of 1? - ttddGauge Bosons
Answer the following about particle physics. In this process⸴ one entity's energy is related to a constant in the Geiger-Nuttall Law which was first calculated by George Gamow. Unlike a similar process⸴ this process is governed by the nuclear and electromagnetic forces. Once this process is finished⸴ an atom's mass number will be decreased by four⸴ and during this process⸴ an atom's nucleus emits a helium atom. Identify this type of radioactive decay named for the first letter in the Greek alphabet. - ttddAlpha Decay [Prompt on ˈˈRadioactive Decayˈˈ and ˈˈRadioactivityˈˈ⸴ Do NOT accept or prompt on any answer with ˈˈBetaˈˈ or ˈˈGammaˈˈ]
Answer the following about geology. Basalt and gabbro are two examples of what kind of igneous rock? This type of rock contains magnesium and iron. - ttddMafic [Do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈFelsicˈˈ]
Answer the following about geology. Shale and sandstone are two examples of what kind of sedimentary rock? These rocks form when weathering from wind and water breaks down larger rocks. - ttddClastic [Do NOT accept or prompt on ˈˈChemicalˈˈ or ˈˈOrganicˈˈ]
Answer the following about geology. In 1917⸴ this scientist studied the octahedrite meteorite named for Treysa⸴ and earlier this man wrote the meteorological standard text⸴ Thermodynamics of the Atmosphere while a professor at the University of Marburg. This scientist⸴ along with Rasmus Villumsen⸴ never returned from his final expedition to Eismitte in Greenland. In 1915⸴ this man wrote The Origin of Continents and Oceans where he drew conclusions about the breaking apart of the ˈˈUrkontinent⸴ˈˈ which was analogous to Pangea. What German geophysicist developed the theory of continental drift? - ttddAlfred Wegener
Pencil and paper ready. Answers to this set of questions will be numbers. You will have 20 seconds for the team questions. In a compound that has the formula C20H45O15 (ˈˈC twenty⸴ H forty-five⸴ O fifteenˈˈ)⸴ the subscripts of the compound's empirical formula sum to this number. - ttdd16 or sixteen
Pencil and paper ready. Answers to this set of questions will be numbers. You will have 20 seconds for the team questions. In a compound that has the formula C42H91O28 (ˈˈC forty-two⸴ H ninety-one⸴ O twenty-eightˈˈ)⸴ the subscripts of the compound's empirical formula sum to this number. - ttdd23 or twenty-three
Pencil and paper ready. Answers to this set of questions will be numbers. You will have 20 seconds for the team questions. On an NFPA (ˈˈN-F-P-Aˈˈ) diagram⸴ gasoline has this value for the red region⸴ indicating its flammability. A molecule of gluta·thione (GLOO-tuh-ˈˈTHIGHˈˈ-ohn) is comprised of this many amino acids. Melezitose and raffinose are saccharides comprised of this many monomers⸴ since they have two glyco·sylitic bonds. Along with eight atoms of hydrogen⸴ there are this number of carbon atoms in a molecule of propane. Most body fat is comprised of molecules that with this many glycerides. This is the pH (ˈˈP-Hˈˈ) of a substance that has a pOH (ˈˈP-O-Hˈˈ) of 11. Give this atomic number of lithium and the total number of atoms in a molecule of water. - ttdd3 or three
Answer the following about subatomic particles. Baryons (ˈˈBAREˈˈ-ee-onz) are formed by three of these particles⸴ which comes in six different varieties. The name of these particles was coined by Murray Gell-Mann. - ttddquarks
Answer the following about subatomic particles. James Chadwick discovered this type of baryon⸴ whose namesake ˈˈfluxˈˈ is often used to measure the activity of a nuclear reactor. - ttddneutrons
Answer the following about subatomic particles. The holes in the Dirac (dih-RAK) sea are filled with this kind of particle⸴ which Dirac posited to solve the problem of energy states in his namesake equation. Baryo·genesis immediately after the Big Bang explains why so few types of these particles exist. A type of this substance is used as a radio·nuclide source in PET (ˈˈpetˈˈ) scans. The (*) positron is an example of this kind of substance⸴ which has an opposite charge to most matter. Name this kind of substance which annihilates normal matter. - ttddanti·matter [or anti·particles; accept positrons before (*)]
Name these physical constants. On the left-hand side of the time dependent Schrodinger equation⸴ i is multiplied by this constant times the partial derivative with respect to time of the wave·function. - ttddDirac's constant or h bar or reduced Planck's constant [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈhˈˈ or ˈˈPlanck's constantˈˈ]
Name these physical constants. This constant is multiplied by temperature raised to the fourth power and is set equal to the radiative emission in a namesake law describing the output of a blackbody. - ttddStefan-Boltzmann constant [or Stefan's constant]
Name these physical constants. James Bradley worked out one of the first estimates for this constant by using the Earth's rotation rate and a change in a star's parallax. Ole Romer was the first to suggest that this constant was not infinite when he measured the movement of the moon Io. After the usage of krypton-86 to set a definition for the meter⸴ this constant and the second were used to give a new definition for the meter. Deviations from this constant can be calculating using Snell's law⸴ since a vacuum's refractive index is assumed to be 1. This constant is squared and multiplied by mass in an equation by Albert Einstein that sets it equal to energy. Name this constant equal to almost 300 million meters per second. - ttddspeed of light in a vacuum or speed of light in free space [prompt on ˈˈcˈˈ]
Answer the following about physical quantities. This SI unit is the only one that is directly defined by an object. - ttddkilogram [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈgramˈˈ or anything else]
Answer the following about physical quantities. The triple point of water is used to define the SI unit that measures this quantity. - ttddtemperature [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈkelvinˈˈ]
Answer the following about physical quantities. In CGS (ˈˈC-G-Sˈˈ) units⸴ this physical quantity is measured using a unit abbreviated abC (ˈˈA-B-Cˈˈ). Franklin bells demonstrate the usage of this quantity⸴ which is stored in a Leyden Jar. Faraday's constant is equal to this quantity for a mole of electrons. Fractional values for this quantity are assigned to quarks. Milliken's oil drop experiment measured this physical quantity for the electron. The coulomb is the SI unit of what physical quantity which is often said to be ˈˈpositive oneˈˈ for the proton and ˈˈnegative oneˈˈ for the electron? - ttddelectric charge
Answer the following about heat. This German scientist's formulation of the second law of thermodynamics casts it in terms of ˈˈpassage of heat.ˈˈ With Emile Clapeyron (ay-MEEL KLAP-uh-ron)⸴ he names an equation describing phase transitions. - ttddRudolf Julius Emanuel Clausius (KLAW-zee-us) [or Rudolf Gottlieb]
Answer the following about heat. The third law of thermodynamics states that the ˈˈperfectˈˈ kind of this substance has no entropy at absolute zero. These substances are divided into seven different types of families⸴ including mono·clinic and ortho·rhombic. - ttddcrystal [or crystalline solid or crystalline substance; accept perfect crystal]
Answer the following about heat. One form of this technique works by reversing the Brayton Cycle to initiate the Bell Coleman Cycle. The ˈˈthermo·electricˈˈ form of this technique is done by using the Peltier (pell-tee-ay) effect and requires no moving parts. There exists vapor-compression and vapor-absorption forms of this technique⸴ which was first mathematically derived by Sadi Carnot (sah-dee kar-noh). In general⸴ this technique uses a heat pump to alter temperature. Heat is moved from one location to another via what technique that gives its name to a household appliance? - ttddrefrigeration [accept word forms; accept thermoelectric refrigeration or vapor-compression refrigeration or vapor-absorption refrigeration; prompt on ˈˈcoolingˈˈ or word forms]
Name these materials encountered in physics. Neo·dymium is often used to make an extremely strong form of these objects⸴ whose ˈˈparaˈˈ types include hydrogen consisting of one atom. - ttddmagnets [accept paramagnets]
Name these materials encountered in physics. Light is refracted into its constituent colors using these materials⸴ which consist of a polished surface. - ttddprisms
Name these materials encountered in physics. An idealized form of these materials has an infinite value for the relative imaginary permittivity divided by the relative real permittivity. Perfect types of these materials have a constant magnetic flux. BCS (ˈˈB-C-Sˈˈ) theory explains one form of these materials. Pure water is not one of these substances⸴ but the addition of salt makes it one. Gallium is an example of the (*) ˈˈsemiˈˈ type of these materials. Name these materials which allow electricity to pass through them⸴ unlike resistors. - ttddconductors [accept superconductors before (*)]
Name these chemists. Sodium and potassium were first extracted from soda ash and potash by this English chemist⸴ who invented a namesake lamp for use in mining. - ttddSir Humphry Davy⸴ 1st Baronet
Name these chemists. Silicon and selenium were discovered by this Swedish chemist⸴ who determined the atomic weights of many elements. He may be best known for developing the modern chemical formula notation⸴ although he utilized superscripts instead of subscripts. - ttddJons Jacob Berzelius (bur-ZAY-lee-uss)
Name these chemists. This scientist defined a quantity equal to the cat·ion charge divided by the cat·ion coordination number. That quantity⸴ the electro·static bond strength⸴ is used in a rule developed by this scientist stating that the sum of the electro·static bond strengths of an an·ion equals the charge of that an·ion. That rule is one of five namesake rules for the ionic structures of crystals. This chemist⸴ who infamously advocated for high dosages of Vitamin C⸴ has won a Nobel Prize in the fields of both Chemistry and Peace. Name this 20th century American chemist who names the most traditional scale of electro·negativity. - ttddLinus Pauling [accept Pauling's rules or Pauling scale]
Answer the following about rotational dynamics. If the Lagrangian (luh-GRAHN-jee-in) is rotationally symmetric⸴ then Noether's (NOY-tur'z) theorem guarantees that a system will exhibit a conservation of this quantity⸴ which is measured in newton meter seconds. - ttddangular momentum [or rotational momentum or moment of momentum; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈmomentumˈˈ]
Answer the following about rotational dynamics. According to a simple theorem⸴ the moment of inertia for an object around an axis will be equal to I+md2 (ˈˈI plus M D squaredˈˈ) if another axis has this property. - ttddparallel with respect to the first axis [accept parallelism or parallel axis theorem]
Answer the following about rotational dynamics. Energy can be extracted from these objects via the Penrose process. Rotating varieties of this object are surrounded by an ergo·sphere. Angular momentum⸴ charge⸴ and mass uniquely characterize these objects according to the no-hair theorem. Gravitational waves were detected when two of these objects collided. These objects consist of a singularity surrounded by an event horizon⸴ which is sometimes called a ˈˈpoint of no return.ˈˈ Name these objects from which light cannot escape. - ttddblack holes [accept rotating black holes]
Name the following related to laws of physics. As currently formulated⸴ a law of magnetism named for this scientist states that the divergence of the magnetic field is equal to zero. - ttddJohann Carl Friedrich Gauss (GOWSS) [accept Gauss' law for magnetism]
Name the following related to laws of physics. Gauss' law for magnetism would have to be rewritten so that its right hand side is non-zero if this hypothetical particle were to be discovered. - ttddmagnetic monopole
Name the following related to laws of physics. Hugh Everett posited a form of this law based on entropy which relates the Shannon entropies of two Fourier (FUR-yay) transform pairs. This law can be used to show why the width of a spectral line is dependent on the spread of a particle's energy. According to this law⸴ the product of the standard deviations of two variables is greater than or equal to h-bar over two. Generally speaking⸴ this law states that complementary pairs of variables have their precision limited. Name this principle that is named after a German scientist and holds that an object's exact position and momentum cannot be known simultaneously. - ttddHeisenberg (ˈˈHIGHˈˈ-zin-bairg) Uncertainty Principle [accept either underlined part]
Name these elements. Robert Bunsen and Gustav Kirchhoff (KEER-koff) discovered this alkali metal⸴ whose name comes from the Latin for ˈˈsky-blue.ˈˈ This element's atomic number is 55. - ttddcesium (SEE-zee-um) [or caesium; prompt on ˈˈCsˈˈ]
Name these elements. Bunsen and Kirchoff also discovered this other alkali metal⸴ whose name comes from the Latin for ˈˈdeep red.ˈˈ This element's atomic number is 37. - ttddrubidium (roo-BIH-dee-um) [prompt on ˈˈRbˈˈ]
Name these elements. Gilbert Lewis predicted the existence of a meta·stable form of this element⸴ since this element's liquid form does not satisfy Curie's Law. A free radical composed of ions of this element is converted into its di·atomic form by an enzyme known as its namesake ˈˈdismutase.ˈˈ After hydrogen and helium⸴ this gas is the third most abundant element in the universe. When Joseph Priestly isolated this element⸴ he called it de·phlogisticated (dee-fluh-JISS-tih-KAY-ted) air. The tri·atomic allotrope of this element is ozone. Name this gas which comprises about 21% of the air. - ttddoxygen [prompt on ˈˈOˈˈ]
Name these types of motion. Even though the speed is constant⸴ the acceleration of this motion is non-zero. The acceleration of this kind of motion is given by the velocity squared divided by the radius. - ttdduniform circular motion [prompt on partial answer]
Name these types of motion. During this kind of motion⸴ the x component of a force is always zero⸴ while the downward force is always caused by gravity. Objects in this motion follow a parabolic path. - ttddprojectile motion
Name these types of motion. When an object exhibits this kind of motion⸴ it may form a Prandtl-Meyer (PRAAN-tul-ˈˈMYˈˈ-err) expansion fan. A Ludwieg Tube is a wind tunnel that produces this kind of motion. The Sears-Haack body is the ideal shape to reduce the resistance on a body that is undergoing this kind of motion. This kind of motion often occurs due to the use of afterburners. This kind of motion will produce a certain type of (*) boom since an object has exceeded Mach (ˈˈmockˈˈ) (**) 1. Name this kind of motion in which an object travels faster than the speed of sound. - ttddsupersonic motion [accept hypersonic motion before (**)⸴ but do not accept thereafter; prompt on ˈˈsonicˈˈ or ˈˈsonic boomˈˈ after (*)]
Answer the following about a branch of physics. Phenomena such as ˈˈperiod doublingˈˈ characterize these physical systems⸴ in which a small change in initial conditions changes the effects dramatically. - ttddchaos theory
Answer the following about a branch of physics. Chaos theory is often analogized to an effect in which the movement of this animal creates large effects that cannot be predicted. - ttddbutterfly or butterflies [accept butterfly effect]
Answer the following about a branch of physics. A classic example of chaos is the ˈˈdoubleˈˈ form of these objects. Simeon-Denis Poisson (pwah-SOHN) created a formula in which the mass of a gun is summed with the mass of one type of this object. At least two of these objects comprise the device known as Newton's Cradle⸴ which is used to illustrate the conservation of momentum. It is common to experimentally determine a bullet's momentum by using a ˈˈballisticˈˈ one of these devices. These devices are comprised of a weight suspended on a pivot. Name these swinging devices seen in grandfather clocks. - ttddpendulum [accept double pendulum or ballistic pendulum; prompt on ˈˈoscillatorˈˈ or ˈˈsimple harmonic oscillatorˈˈ]
Name these physicists. The argument that objects have pairs of properties that cannot be measured at the same time⸴ such as wave/particle duality⸴ comprises the complementarity principle posited by this scientist. - ttddNiels Henrik David Bohr
Name these physicists. This scientist introduced the concept of a displacement current⸴ in which current is dependent on changing electric field strength⸴ in his paper ˈˈOn the Physical Lines of Force.ˈˈ - ttddJames Clerk Maxwell
Name these physicists. A constant named for this scientist is proportional to the square of the Lande (LAND-uh) g-factor⸴ the number of magnetic atoms per unit volume⸴ and the square of the Bohr magneton. That constant named for this scientist appears in a law that describes the magnetic susceptibility of a para·magnet under certain conditions and is co-named for this man and Pierre-Ernest Weiss. This scientist co-discovered piezoelectricity (pee-AY-zoh-ˈˈelectricityˈˈ)⸴ and he names the temperature at which materials lose their magnetic properties. Name this French physicist who worked with radioactivity alongside his Polish wife⸴ Marie. - ttddPierre Curie
Identify the following metals. This element and selenium are used to make quantum dots. Along with silver and indium⸴ this element is often used to make control rods for nuclear reactors. - ttddcadmium [prompt on ˈˈCdˈˈ]
Identify the following metals. The 60 isotope of this element is often used to produce gamma rays since it decays into nickel. This magnetic element is bluish in color. - ttddcobalt [prompt on ˈˈCoˈˈ]
Identify the following metals. Though it is not rhenium⸴ the results of Walter Noddack and his team discovering this element⸴ which they called masurium⸴ by bombarding columbite with electrons is still widely disputed. The primary source of one isotope of this element is spent nuclear fuel rods. Before its discovery⸴ Dmitri Mendeleev (men-duh-LAY-eff or MEN-duh-lev) gave it the predicted named of ˈˈeka-manganese.ˈˈ This element was first made by bombarding molybdenum with neutrons. 43 is the atomic number of what radioactive metal which has a name reflecting its artificial creation and is symbolized (*) Tc (ˈˈT-Cˈˈ)? - ttddtechnetium (tek-NEE-shee-um or tek-NEE-shum) [prompt on ˈˈTcˈˈ before (*)]
Answer the following about potential energy. The formula for determining the gravitational potential energy of a body revolving around another body is equal to negative the gravitational constant⸴ times the mass of one body⸴ times the mass of the other body⸴ times the distance between the two bodies to this power. - ttdd-1 or negative one or minus one [do not accept or prompt on ˈˈoneˈˈ by itself]
Answer the following about potential energy. The formula for determining the potential energy of one of these objects is equal to one half⸴ times a namesake constant⸴ times the displacement from equilibrium squared. - ttddsprings [prompt on ˈˈsimple harmonic oscillatorsˈˈ or partial answers thereof]
Answer the following about potential energy. Gyrators are often used to simulate these devices⸴ whose namesake quantity appears in the numerator of the formula for the Q factor. One half⸴ times a unit named for Heinrich Lenz⸴ times the current squared⸴ gives the potential energy of these devices. Along with a capacitor⸴ this component's energy oscillates in an LR (ˈˈL-Rˈˈ) circuit. The strength of these devices⸴ which usually consist of a wire wound into a (*) coil⸴ is measured in units named henry. Give this circuit component in which the energy is stored in a magnetic field. - ttddinductors [accept reactors; accept coils before (*); accept inductance]
Name these objects within the solar system. This object is the site of a periodically occurring storm known as the Great White Spot. - ttddSaturn
Name these objects within the solar system. The Gertrude Crater is the largest on this object⸴ which was discovered in 1787 on the same day as Oberon. - ttddTitania
Name these objects within the solar system. On this object⸴ a dark region called Gallifrey Macula is bisected by Tardis Chasma. In a recent statement from NASA⸴ it was noted that this object's ˈˈmountain in a moatˈˈ has stumped astronomers. This is the smaller of two objects that may have a reddish color due to tholins. The north polar region of this object is informally called Mordor. This object was discovered by James Christy in 1978. This was the largest satellite documented by the New Horizons probe that was launched in 2006. This satellite is the largest of five moons that also include Hydra and Nix. Name this moon of Pluto. - ttddCharon (ˈˈSHAREˈˈ-en) [or 134340 Pluto I; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈPlutoˈˈ by itself]
Answer the following about some things you might see or use in a chemistry lab. One type of this object named for Sir James Dewar (DOO-er) features a gap which consists of a near-vacuum. A more common form of this object named for a German features both conical and cylindrical parts. - ttddflask [accept Dewar flask or Erlenmeyer flask]
Answer the following about some things you might see or use in a chemistry lab. In chemistry labs⸴ materials that need to be heated are typically accommodated within these containers⸴ which can withstand very high temperatures. The ˈˈGoochˈˈ type of this object contains a perforated bottom. - ttddcrucible [accept Gooch crucible]
Answer the following about some things you might see or use in a chemistry lab. Special columns are used in the ˈˈspinning bandˈˈ form of this technique. The McCabe-Thiele (TEE-luh) method is often used to analyze this process⸴ whose usage of ˈˈtheoretical platesˈˈ is governed by the Fenske (FEN-skee) equation. This process may make use of refluxing⸴ in which a vapor is re·deposited into the original source mixture of liquid. Certain forms of this technique cannot be applied to azeo·tropes (AY-zee-oh-TROHPS). Name this process in which the components of a mixture are separated by evaporation and condensation based on differences in boiling point. - ttdddistillation [accept word forms; accept spinning band distillation]
Answer the following about layers of the Earth's atmosphere. Most of Earth's satellites orbit within this outermost layers of the atmosphere. - ttddexo·sphere
Answer the following about layers of the Earth's atmosphere. Luminous events known as red sprites appear in this third highest layer of the atmosphere⸴ which contains the lowest portion of the iono·sphere. - ttddmeso·sphere
Answer the following about layers of the Earth's atmosphere. The Dynamics Explorer mission mapped the namesake ˈˈhissˈˈ of these phenomena⸴ whose ˈˈquiet arcˈˈ patterns are partly determined by the forbidden transition of oxygen. This phenomena is best viewed at a time of day known as magnetic midnight. These phenomena form when the solar wind hits the magneto·sphere and causes radiation to enter the thermo·sphere. The polar regions are the best locations to view this phenomena⸴ which exist in forms called ˈˈaustralisˈˈ and ˈˈborealis.ˈˈ Name these natural light phenomena known as the ˈˈsouthern lightsˈˈ and ˈˈnorthern lights.ˈˈ - ttddaurorae or auroras [accept aurora australis or aurora borealis; prompt on ˈˈsouthern lightsˈˈ or ˈˈnorthern lightsˈˈ before they are mentioned]
Answer the following about waves. Ions along a magnetic field line oscillate to create Alfven waves in this kind of material⸴ whose name was coined by Irving Langmuir. - ttddplasmas
Answer the following about waves. A type of non-linear gravity wave that is seen in fluids with constant depth is named after this Irish scientist⸴ who is the second namesake of a set of equations that describe the motion of fluids. - ttddSir George Gabriel Stokes⸴ 1st Baronet [accept Stokes waves or Navier-Stokes equations]
Answer the following about waves. Waves that affect this phenomenon do not occur if one makes the beta plane approximation⸴ since this phenomenon's namesake parameter will only vary linearly and not with latitude. Planetary waves named after Carl Rossby alter this phenomenon's components. This phenomenon is equal to negative two⸴ times mass⸴ times the angular velocity⸴ crossed with the velocity⸴ which indicates that it is a fictitious force. A French scientist is the namesake of what force that appears in rotating reference frames and is exemplified by viewing a carousel from above? - ttddCoriolis effect [or Coriolis force or Coriolis acceleration]
Answer the following related to the right-hand rule. To solve electro·dynamics problems⸴ the right-hand rule is often used to calculate the direction of this quantity⸴ which is the magnetic moment crossed with the external magnetic field. - ttddtorque
Answer the following related to the right-hand rule. As determined by the right-hand rule⸴ the direction of torque can be used to determine whether this phenomenon is clockwise or counterclockwise. One type of this phenomenon is named after Joseph Larmor. - ttddprecession (pree-SEH-shun) [accept Larmor precession]
Answer the following related to the right-hand rule. The similar left-hand rule for an electric generator gives the direction of motion for the electric field⸴ the current⸴ and this quantity. Nozzles will often use the ˈˈvectoringˈˈ named for this quantity to change the direction of motion of an object. Many vehicles are evaluated by a ratio in which the magnitude of this force is divided by the vehicle's weight. According to Newton's third law⸴ when a rocket expels fuel it must produce this force in the opposite direction. Name this reaction force that propels a rocket forward. - ttddthrust [accept thrust vectoring; accept thrust-to-weight ratio]
Answer the following about colors in chemistry. Sodium gives off this color in a flame test. An element that primarily appears in this color is harvested through the Frasch process. - ttddyellow
Answer the following about colors in chemistry. Radium and strontium give off this color during a flame test. The cochineal (kok-uh-NEEL) insect is used to create a dye of this color called carmine. - ttddred
Answer the following about colors in chemistry. The first artificial dye of this color was made during an attempt to synthesize quinine by William Perkin. Gram- positive bacteria retain a dye of this color when they are stained. Potassium gives off hues of this color during a flame test. A dye of this color was harvested from murex seashells. Iodine was given the Greek name for this color since its vapor has this hue. The light of this color has the shortest possible wavelength of visible light. Give this color that is similar to mauve (mohv) and formed by combining red with blue. - ttddpurple [or violet]
Name the following related to physical constants from the study of electromagnetism. What constant⸴ whose reciprocal is multiplied by 1/4pi (ˈˈone over four piˈˈ) in Coulomb's law⸴ is partly determined by the magnetic permeability? - ttddvacuum permittivity or permittivity of free space or electric constant
Name the following related to physical constants from the study of electromagnetism. What other electromagnetic constant was first measured by Robert Millikan's oil drop experiment? - ttddcharge of the electron [accept fundamental charge]
Name the following related to physical constants from the study of electromagnetism. This scientist gives his name to a constant defined by ˈˈe times h bar⸴ divided by 2⸴ times the electron rest mass⸴ times the speed of light.ˈˈ That constant gives the magnetic moment of an electron and is known as his ˈˈmagneton.ˈˈ The philosophical underpinnings of quantum mechanics were debated between Albert Einstein and this physicist⸴ who defended his complementarity principle. This physicist also proposed that electrons occupy discrete levels above the nucleus⸴ a model which Arnold Sommerfield refined into a better model. Name this 20th century Danish physicist who proposed a namesake model of the atom. - ttddNiels Henrik David Bohr
Name the following about chemistry lab techniques. In filtration⸴ the Buchner type of this piece of equipment is often used. A smaller variety of this equipment is the Hirsch type. - ttddfunnel
Name the following about chemistry lab techniques. Samples for techniques involving light⸴ such as in a spectrophotometer⸴ are placed into containers with this name. - ttddcuvette
Name the following about chemistry lab techniques. An equation used to measure the strength of this technique takes into account multiple paths⸴ diffusion⸴ and mass transfer in order to calculate the height of a theoretical plate. The Van Deemter equation is used to calculate the resolving power of this technique. A version of this technique uses poly·histidine tags to obtain specific proteins. Nin·hydrin is used in some types to detect amino acids. The effectiveness of this technique can be measured with the retention factor. This technique always contains a stationary phase and a mobile phase. Name this lab technique which is used to separate components of a mixture and comes in affinity⸴ thin-layer⸴ and column types. - ttddchromatography [accept affinity chromatography or thin-layer chromatography or column chromatography or paper chromatography]
Give the following related to phases of matter. The cholesteric (kuh-LES-ter-ik) phase and nematic (nee-MAT-ik) phase are two phases of what phenomena⸴ which exhibit long range order despite being fluid and are often used in TV displays? - ttddliquid crystals [or LCs; accept liquid crystal displays or LCDs; do not prompt on partial answers]
Give the following related to phases of matter. What phase of matter⸴ partly named for an Indian physicist⸴ was first created by cooling rubidium and is modeled by the Gross-Pitaevskii (ˈˈgrossˈˈ pih-TAYF-skee) equation? - ttddBose-Einstein condensates [accept BECs; prompt on ˈˈcondensateˈˈ]
Give the following related to phases of matter. The entropy of a system in this phase is partly given by the Sackur-Tetrode equation. In statistical mechanics⸴ Maxwell modified the Boltzmann distribution to explain the behavior of particles in this state of matter. Fugacity can be described as the tendency of a molecule in this phase to escape. The root-mean-square-speed of these substances can be derived if one makes the assumption that the kinetic theory of these substances is true. Name this state of matter in which particles move freely⸴ one example of which is atmospheric oxygen. - ttddgas
Answer the following about tides. The Roche (rowsh) limit gives the limit at which tidal forces overcome gravitational forces⸴ leading a body to disintegrate and usually form what kind of planetary structure? - ttddplanetary rings
Answer the following about tides. The gravitational gradient of a body can lead to tidal locking⸴ in which this type of orbit occurs. This kind of orbit occurs when one half of an orbiting body always faces the other orbiting body. - ttddsynchronous orbit [accept word forms]
Answer the following about tides. This scientist used equations from fluid dynamics to derive a set of partial differential equations that model tidal flows. In A Philosophical Essay on Probabilities⸴ this scientist posited a being that knows the position and momentum of every particle⸴ and thus knows the fate of the universe; that is this physicist's namesake ˈˈdemon.ˈˈ This scientist's namesake calculus operator is the divergence of the gradient and appears in his namesake equation⸴ which gives the behavior of potentials. Name this French physicist who first posited the notion of a black hole. - ttddPierre-Simon⸴ marquis de Laplace (luh-PLAHSS)
Answer some questions regarding polymers. The Ziegler-Natta type of this substance is used in creating some types of polymers. More generally⸴ they can be classified as heterogeneous or homogenous depending on their phase. - ttddcatalysts
Answer some questions regarding polymers. This polymer⸴ which is made up of polyamide chains⸴ was the first synthetic fiber to be produced. - ttddnylon
Answer some questions regarding polymers. Dynamic mechanical analysis is often used on polymers to determine the temperature at which a transition of this name occurs. That transition occurs at a point where this type of material switches from a rubber-like state to a more rigid form. When synthesizing this material⸴ one can cool it through annealing or quenching. Boro·silicate types of this material are manufactured by Pyrex⸴ although it is most commonly made from either soda-lime or silica. These materials are classified as amorphous solids⸴ meaning that they have no crystal structure. Name these materials⸴ whose name also describes the material used to make common laboratory equipment such as flasks and beakers. - ttddglass [or glassware]
Name these chemists. After working with Friedrich Hund⸴ this scientist developed the idea of a molecular orbital. He also devised a scale for electronegativity based on electron affinity and ionization energy. - ttddRobert Sanderson Mulliken [do not accept ˈˈRobert Andrews Millikanˈˈ]
Name these chemists. This man dispelled the idea of vitalism when he synthesized urea from inorganic compounds. - ttddFriedrich Wohler (VOH-lur)
Name these chemists. In describing chemical formulas⸴ this scientist devised a ˈˈrule of greatest simplicityˈˈ⸴ leading him to believe the formula for water was HO (ˈˈHˈˈ-ˈˈOˈˈ). This scientist proposed the idea that atoms are rearranged during a chemical reaction⸴ as well as the idea that elements are made up of atoms that are identical for each element. This man discovered that atoms can only combine in discrete amounts⸴ leading him to propose the law of multiple proportions. After realizing both he and his brother suffered from it⸴ this man became the first scientist to study color blindness. This man names the unit for atomic mass as well as the law of partial pressures. Name this English scientist who was the first to study modern atomic theory. - ttddJohn Dalton
This set of questions will deal with astronomical bodies as they relate to physics. A hypothetical planet of this name was posited by Urbain Le Verrier (UR-bane luh VAIR-ee-ay) to explain Mercury's anomalous rotation⸴ which was later explained by Einstein's theory of general relativity. - ttddVulcan
This set of questions will deal with astronomical bodies as they relate to physics. In the 17th century⸴ this Danish physicist used the moons of Jupiter to provide one of the first estimates of the speed of light. - ttddOle Christensen Rømer (ˈˈROH-merˈˈ)
This set of questions will deal with astronomical bodies as they relate to physics. The orbit of the galactic center of the Milky Way⸴ its velocity⸴ and its period are characterized by this scientist's two namesake constants⸴ which are denoted as A and B. A hypothetical brown dwarf known as Nemesis may originate from a region named for this scientist and may have caused many of Earth's mass extinctions. That region⸴ which is partly named for Ernst Öpik⸴ is home to many icy planetesimals⸴ possibly including Hale-Bopp and Shoemaker-Levy 9. Identify this Dutch astronomer who gives his name to the source of many long range comets⸴ his namesake ˈˈcloud.ˈˈ - ttddJan Hendrik Oort [accept Oort constants or Opik-Oort cloud]
Answer the following about molecular structure. This relationship is shared by propanol and isopropyl alcohol⸴ as both molecules have the same chemical formula but different bonds among their atoms. - ttddstructural isomerism [or constitutional isomerism; prompt on ˈˈisomerˈˈ or ˈˈisomerismˈˈ]
Answer the following about molecular structure. One of two lattice structures in crystals that feature close packing is this one⸴ which is the most complex cubic lattice. It has a coordinate number of twelve. - ttddface-centered cubic
Answer the following about molecular structure. The Irving-Williams series is a method of ordering the stability of different molecules with this property. Molecules with this property form orbitals called t-sub-2g and e-sub-g. Because degeneracy occurs in complexes of this form⸴ they often undergo a distortion to lower their energy. This configuration is observed when EDTA fully binds to a metal cat·ion. This is the most common configuration to feature the Jahn-Teller effect. Replacing two of this geometry's ligands with lone pairs gives square planar. A molecule that has this geometry is sulfur hexafluoride. Name this molecular geometry in which the central atom binds to six different constituents. - ttddoctahedral molecular geometry
Name the following related to subatomic particles. What subatomic quasi-particles carry positive charge and exist in an atomic lattice? When an electron leaves an atom⸴ one of these quasi-particles takes its place. - ttddelectron holes
Name the following related to subatomic particles. What quasi-particles⸴ which are collective oscillations of free electron gases⸴ combine with photons to make a polariton? - ttddplasmons
Name the following related to subatomic particles. The ˈˈomegaˈˈ one of these particles is made entirely out of strange matter. A quantity named for these particles is defined as one third of the number of quarks minus the number of anti-quarks. CP-symmetry violations and interactions out of thermal equilibrium are two of the Sakharov (SAHK-uh-rahv) conditions⸴ which are necessary for these particles to be formed. Dark matter candidates are these particles⸴ as are protons and neutrons. Name these subatomic particles which are comprised of three quarks and take their name from the Greek word for ˈˈheavy.ˈˈ - ttddbaryons (ˈˈBEARˈˈ-ee-onz)
Name these transition metals. This element was used along with nickel in rechargeable batteries⸴ but its usage has declined due to its high toxicity. - ttddcadmium
Name these transition metals. This metal⸴ obtained from the Kroll process⸴ can form a dioxide that is widely used as a white pigment. - ttddtitanium
Name these transition metals. Camillo Golgi first used this element as a staining agent to visualize nervous tissue⸴ although today that stain is more widely used following SDS-PAGE (ˈˈSˈˈ-ˈˈDˈˈ-ˈˈSˈˈ ˈˈpageˈˈ). This element has the electron configuration of 5s1 4d10⸴ which explains why it is predominantly found in the +1 oxidation state. It's not mercury⸴ but this metal forms an insoluble compound with chloride ions⸴ making it useful as a reference electrode. This metal is found in Tollens' reagent⸴ and its iodide is used in cloud seeding. Halides of this metal are found in a gelatin used in some forms of photography. Name this precious metal that has atomic number 47 and is located on the periodic table directly above gold. - ttddsilver
Name the following physicists. What physicist⸴ in his treatise Reflection on the Motive Power of Fire⸴ proposed a method for extracting work from heat via his namesake⸴ efficient cycle? - ttddNicolas Leonard Sadi Carnot [accept Carnot cycle]
Name the following physicists. What physicist wrote On the Moving Force of Heat⸴ which introduced the concept of entropy? With Emile Clapeyron (eh-ˈˈMEALˈˈ CLAP-uh-ron)⸴ he names a relation that describes discontinuous phase transitions. - ttddRudolf Julius Emanuel Clausius [or Rudolf Gottlieb; accept Clausius-Clapeyron relation]
Name the following physicists. This physicist⸴ who authored ˈˈOn the form of the teeth of wheels in spur gearingˈˈ⸴ gives his name to the ˈˈovershootingˈˈ phenomenon that occurs when using a Fourier series to represent a square wave. The change in chemical potential of a system is given by a summation formula named for this man and Pierre Duhem (DEW-hem). Enthalpy minus temperature times entropy gives a quantity named for this physicist which measures the amount of useful work that can be extracted from a system. Name this American thermodynamic physicist who gives his name to a ˈˈfree energy.ˈˈ - ttddJosiah Willard Gibbs [accept Gibbs phenomenon or Gibbs-Duhem equation or Gibbs free energy or Gibbs energy or Gibbs function]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about units of measure. This is the SI unit of mass. - ttddKilogram
Physical Science: Answer these questions about units of measure. This is the SI unit of length. - ttddMeter
Physical Science: Answer these questions about units of measure. Toss-Up: This quantity is the reciprocal of frequency, and is used find velocity by dividing displacement by it. Name this quantity, sometimes called the ''fourth dimension,'' which is measured in seconds. - ttddTime [accept ''period'' if the buzz in occurs before ''and is used...'']
Physical Science: Name the following planets. This is the smallest planet in the solar system and the closest to the Sun. - ttddMercury
Physical Science: Name the following planets. This is the largest planet in the solar system and has a famous large storm. - ttddJupiter
Physical Science: Name the following planets. Toss-Up: The Adams' ring is the largest ring around this planet, to which Voyager II was sent. It experiences storms such as the Scooter and the Wizard's Eye. Proteus and Triton orbit this planet, whose methane atmosphere gives it its blue color. Name this planet, home of the Great Dark Spot. - ttddNeptune
Physical Science: Name some simple machines. This simple machine consists of a beam or rigid rod and a fulcrum. - ttddLever
Physical Science: Name some simple machines. An example of this machine is a hand axe and is a small inclined plane. - ttddWedge
Physical Science: Name some simple machines. Toss-Up: Atwood Machines have nearly massless versions of this simple machine, and there are also horizontal and single fixed-axis kinds. The block and tackle kinds have a mechanical advantage equal to the amount of them. Name this simple machine that uses an axle and a rope to lift masses. - ttddPulley
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. This state function is the measure of disorder in a system. - ttddEntropy [do not accept enthalpy]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. This state function is the sum of a system's internal energy plus the product of the system's pressure and volume. - ttddEnthalpy [do not accept entropy]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. Toss-Up: This quantity per area can be defined as surface area, and it can be used for isothermal and isobaric processes, unlike a similar quantity, Helmholtz free energy. This quantity is equal to enthalpy minus the product of temperature and entropy. Name this quantity, symbolized G. - ttddGibb's Free Energy [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about bonding and orbitals. This type of bond occurs when two oppositely charged bodies are attracted together. - ttddIonic
Physical Science: Answer these questions about bonding and orbitals. This type of bond occurs when two atoms combine and share electrons. - ttddCovalent
Physical Science: Answer these questions about bonding and orbitals. Toss-Up: This phenomenon was proposed by Linus Pauling, and it applies to the central atoms of methane, ammonia, and water. Name this phenomenon from VSEPR theory, in which atomic orbitals mix together to form bonds, examples of which include sp and sp2 orbitals. - ttddHybridization
Physical Science: Identify the following related to Isaac Newton. The device known as Newton's Cradle uses a series of pendulums to demonstrate the conservation of what quantity symbolized by the lower case p that is equal to mass times velocity. - ttddLinear momentum
Physical Science: Identify the following related to Isaac Newton. Force is equal to the time derivative of momentum, which is usually stated as mass times acceleration in this law of motion developed by Newton. - ttddNewton's Second Law of Motion [or Newton's Second Law of Motion]
Physical Science: Identify the following related to Isaac Newton. This quantity is equal to six point six seven times ten to the negative eleventh and is multiplied by both masses and divided by the radius squared to find its namesake force. Name this constant found in its namesake equation developed by Newton. - ttddUniversal Gravitational Constant [accept six point six seven times ten to the negative eleventh before read; also accept Big G]
Physical Science: Identify the following principles of electron configuration. This principle comes from the German for ''building up'' and states that orbitals are filled from lowest to highest available energy levels. - ttddAufbau principle
Physical Science: Identify the following principles of electron configuration. This principle applies only to fermions, and states that no two electrons can have the same quantum number, meaning that electrons in the same orbital cannot have the same spin. - ttddPauli exclusion principle
Physical Science: Identify the following principles of electron configuration. Boron does not always follow this rule, and free radicals are also exceptions to this rule. Noble gases always follow this rule, as do most of the first twenty elements. Name this rule that states that valence shells will always fill to hold eight electrons. - ttddOctet rule
Physical Science: Identify the following related to star classification. This diagram measures both a star's spectral type and absolute magnitude. White dwarfs are located in the bottom left corner of this diagram. - ttddHertzsprung-Russell diagram [also accept H-R diagram]
Physical Science: Identify the following related to star classification. A large portion of the H-R diagram is taken up by stars on this tract, which goes from the top left to the bottom right. The sun is currently located on this tract. - ttddMain Sequence
Physical Science: Identify the following related to star classification. These stars were first discovered by Henrietta Swan Leavitt, who developed a relationship between their luminosity and period, which allows these stars to be used as standard candles. Name these variable stars named after the Delta star of a constellation named after a Greek king. - ttddCepheid variable stars
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. Moore's Law states that the number of these components doubles every two years. Identify these devices that can switch electronic signals. - ttddTransistors
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. These devices are described by the Shockley equation. Name these devices that allow current to only pass in one direction. - ttddDiodes
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. These devices possess a breakdown voltage, and the Leyden Jar is considered to be an early one of these. These devices have a namesake quantity equal to charge over voltage, and frequently consist of two parallel plates. Identify this circuit component that stores charge. - ttddCapacitors
Physical Science: Answer the following geology questions. This type of rock, formed due to large amounts of pressure changing existing rocks. - ttddMetamorphic
Physical Science: Answer the following geology questions. This type of metamorphic rock is used often in sculpture and is formed from limestone. - ttddMarble
Physical Science: Answer the following geology questions. Toss-Up: This term refers to sheet-like, planar structures in metamorphic rocks, and those structures can be of varied thickness. It is caused by shearing forces or differential pressures, and its name comes from a plant structure. Name this property, coming from the Latin for ''leaf.'' - ttddFoliation
Physical Science: Answer these questions related to optics. This law explains the bending of light as it enters and exits glass and water from the air. - ttddSnell's Law
Physical Science: Answer these questions related to optics. In Snell's Law, this angle refers to the angle at which the ray approaches the surface. It is contrasted with the angle of refraction. - ttddAngle of incidence
Physical Science: Answer these questions related to optics. Toss-Up: This phenomenon has a frustrated form that is similar to quantum tunneling. This phenomenon is also used in fiber optics. When the angle of incidence exceeds the critical angle, this phenomenon occurs. Name this phenomenon, where the wave cannot pass through, and is completely reflected. - ttddTotal Internal Reflection [do not accept total internal refraction]
Physical Science: Identify the following layers of the atmosphere. This layer of the atmosphere lies below the exosphere and contains the ionosphere. Temperature increases with altitude in this layer. - ttddThermosphere
Physical Science: Identify the following layers of the atmosphere. Almost all weather phenomena occur within this layer, and this layer contains ninety-nine percent of the atmosphere's water vapor. Name this layer closest to the earth. - ttddTroposphere
Physical Science: Identify the following layers of the atmosphere. Thermal inversion also occurs in this layer that contains a substance measured in Dobson Units that absorbs ultraviolet radiation. The bottommost portion of this layer is the tropopause. Identify this layer that contains the ozone layer and is below the mesosphere. - ttddStratosphere
Physical Science: Answer these questions about a lab technique. This technique involves evaporating a substance to separate two chemicals. - ttddDistillation
Physical Science: Answer these questions about a lab technique. This law states the vapor pressure of a solution is equal to the products of the partial pressures and the mole fraction. - ttddRaoult's Law
Physical Science: Answer these questions about a lab technique. Toss-Up: Entrainers must be added to separate these. Water and ethanol form a well-known one of these, and water also makes another with hydrogen chloride. T hese can be either positive or negative depending on whether their boiling points are minimums or maximums. Name these substances, which violate Raoult's Law. - ttddAzeotropes
Physical Science: Identify these subatomic particles. What particles consist of two up quarks and a down quark and have a positive one charge? - ttddProtons
Physical Science: Identify these subatomic particles. What particles are chargeless and determine the isotope number of an atom? - ttddNeutrons
Physical Science: Identify these subatomic particles. What spinless, massless particles that carry the electromagnetic force are often described as a quanta of light? - ttddPhotons
Physical Science: Identify the following measurement devices. What step-counting device measures distance traveled by foot? - ttddPedometer
Physical Science: Identify the following measurement devices. What device commonly found in cars measures distance traveled? - ttddOdometer
Physical Science: Identify the following measurement devices. What device used in meteorology measures wind speed? - ttddAnemometer
Physical Science: Identify these scientists given clues about things named after them. What scientist who co-discovered cesium and rubidium is best known for being the namesake of chemistry lab heating devices? - ttddRobert Bunsen
Physical Science: Identify these scientists given clues about things named after them. What scientist developed the tuning fork diagram but is better known for a telescope recently replaced by the James Webb telescope? - ttddEdwin Hubble
Physical Science: Identify these scientists given clues about things named after them. What scientist was the original pioneer of antiseptic surgery but is mostly referenced today for being the namesake of a brand of mouthwash? - ttddJoseph Lister
Physical Science: Answer these questions about scattering. This inelastic type of scattering results in a photon losing energy and gaining wavelength. - ttddCompton Scattering
Physical Science: Answer these questions about scattering. This type of scattering is used to explain why the sky is blue. - ttddRayleigh Scattering
Physical Science: Answer these questions about scattering. Toss-Up: This type of scattering shares its namesake with an effect that deals with the vibrational and electronic levels of molecules. This inelastic type of scattering can result in the scattered photon having more energy than the incident one. Name this scattering, with Stokes and anti-Stokes varieties, named for an Indian physicist. - ttddRaman Scattering
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. This gas law states that volume and temperature are directly proportional when pressure is constant. - ttddCharles's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. This gas law states that pressure and temperature are directly proportional when volume is constant. - ttddGay-Lussac's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. Toss-Up: This law was discovered independently by Edme Mariotte, and deviations of it can be modeled by the Joule-Thomson Effect. It can also be expressed as the compressibility factor. Name this gas law, which states that pressure and volume are inversely proportional at a constant temperature. - ttddBoyle's Law
Physical Science: Identify these planets from their moons. Tethys, Rhea and Titan. - ttddSaturn
Physical Science: Identify these planets from their moons. Proteus, Nereid, and Triton - ttddNeptune
Physical Science: Identify these planets from their moons. Io, Europa, and Callisto - ttddJupiter
Physical Science: Identify the following devices. A Leyden jar was an early example of what devices that store charge? - ttddCapacitors
Physical Science: Identify the following devices. What circuit elements allow current to only flow in one direction and come in a light-emitting variety? - ttddDiodes
Physical Science: Identify the following devices. Q-switching is a technique involving these devices that rely on population inversion, and Steven Chu won a Nobel Prize for his use of these devices, the first of which used a ruby crystal. Identify these devices that produce light through stimulated emission of radiation. - ttddLasers
Physical Science: Identify the following organic compounds. These compounds have a terminal carbonyl group, and the simplest one is commonly used for embalming. - ttddAldehydes [do NOT accept formaldehyde - the question is asking for the type of compound]
Physical Science: Identify the following organic compounds. These compounds have a carbonyl group that is bonded to two other carbons, and the simplest one can be found in nail polish remover. - ttddKetones [do NOT accept acetone - the question is asking for the type of compound]
Physical Science: Identify the following organic compounds. One of these compounds and a Lewis acid react to form a ketone in the Fries rearrangement, and they can be formed in a reaction named for Fischer. Written in the form -COOR, identify these compounds known for their fruity scents. - ttddEsters
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. What is the rotational analogue of force? - ttddTorque
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. What is the rotational analogue of mass? - ttddMoment of inertia [do NOT prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. The no-hair theorem states that black holes can be characterized by mass, charge, and this quantity that has torque as its time derivative. The product of moment of inertia and angular velocity yields what quantity that is denoted with a capital L and is the rotational analogue of momentum? - ttddAngular momentum [do NOT prompt on momentum]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about lab procedures. What lab procedure uses a burette and can be used to determine the concentration of an unknown substance? - ttddTitration
Physical Science: Answer these questions about lab procedures. Phenolphthalein is an example of what substance that is used in a titration and changes color at a certain pH? - ttddIndicator
Physical Science: Answer these questions about lab procedures. The Fenske equation deals with this process that may utilize a Perkin triangle or a Vigreux column. This process has a vacuum type, and it is based on the principles of Raoult's Law. Azeotropes cannot be separated by this lab procedure that separates components of a mixture based on their boiling point. - ttddDistillation
Physical Science: Answer these questions about Newton's Laws of Motion. According the Newton's Second Law of Motion, what quantity is equal to mass times acceleration? - ttddnet or resultant or unbalanced Force
Physical Science: Answer these questions about Newton's Laws of Motion. According to Newton's Third Law of Motion, for every action, there is a reaction described by what two adjectives? - ttddEqual and opposite [accept in either order]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about Newton's Laws of Motion. Non-accelerating reference frames are described by this word, and Newton's First Law is often called the law of this. Identify this tendency of matter to continue moving in a straight line at a constant speed unless acted upon by an outside force. - ttddInertia [accept ''inertial'' if answered before ''Newton's First Law'']
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. What quantity is the measure of the amount of work done per unit time? - ttddPower
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. What quantity is equal to enthalpy minus the product of entropy and temperature is negative for spontaneous reactions? - ttddGibbs Free Energy
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. Planck's constant divided by the de Broglie wavelength yields this quantity that Laplace's demon deals with. Force is the time derivative of this quantity, and impulse is the change in it. Identify this quantity, conserved in all collisions, found by multiplying mass and velocity. - ttddLinear momentum
Physical Science: Identify the following compounds. What acid with formula HCl is a primary component of stomach acid? - ttddHydrochloric acid
Physical Science: Identify the following compounds. What acid with a formula of HNO3 is found with hydrochloric acid in aqua regia? - ttddNitric acid
Physical Science: Identify the following compounds. Alkenes react with this compound to form Criegee intermediates, and Dobson units are used to measure the density of this compound that is formed during lightning. A foul-smelling, blue-colored gas, identify this compound found in a namesake layer in the atmosphere that has formula O3. - ttddOzone
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. Thiols are functional groups that contain what element that crosslinks to make rubber in vulcanization? - ttddSulfur
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. What element found in fertilizers sees its red allotrope used for matches? - ttddPhosphorus
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. Hydrogen's bonding with this element is governed by Wade's Rule, and it is used in nuclear reactors to capture thermal neutrons. Used in conjunction with silica to make Pyrex is what chemical element with atomic number five and symbol B? - ttddBoron
Physical Science: Identify the following rules and principles. What rule states that every orbital in a subshell is singly occupied with one electron before any orbital is doubly occupied? - ttddHund's Rule
Physical Science: Identify the following rules and principles. What principle forces three-d orbitals to be filled after four-s orbitals and takes its name for the German for "building up"? - ttddAufbau Principle
Physical Science: Identify the following rules and principles. This statement was shown via a thought experiment using a gamma ray microscope, and the Bohr model of atom violates it due to assigning an electron to a definite position. Identify this principle that states one cannot simultaneously know the position and velocity of a particle. - ttddHeisenberg Uncertainty Principle [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Identify the following constants. What constant describes the number of atoms in a mole and is equal to 6.02 times ten to the twenty-third power? - ttddAvogadro's Constant
Physical Science: Identify the following constants. Equal to PV divided by nT is what constant that is denoted capital R and is equal to 8.314 Joules per Kelvin mole? - ttddIdeal Gas Constant [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Identify the following constants. This constant plays a role in Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle and has a reduced version known as h-bar. Describing the size of quanta, identify this physical constant that is equal to 6.63 times ten to the negative thirty-fourth power Joule seconds. - ttddPlanck's Constant
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. Also sometimes named for Edgeworth, what region of the solar system contains trans-Neptunian objects like Eris and Pluto? - ttddEdgeworth-Kuiper Belt
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. Lying past the Kuiper Belt, is what region that is at the edges of our solar system and is thought to be the origin of long-period comets? - ttddOpik-Oort Cloud
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. These objects are classified by the silicon absorption line and their Balmer series, and one of these was responsible for the formation of the Crab Nebula. Occurring when a white dwarf exceeds the Chandrasekhar Limit, is what phenomenon that is a stellar explosion? - ttddSupernova
Physical Science: Identify the following laws. The hypothetical Maxwell's demon would violate what law that states the entropy of a system is never decreasing? - ttddSecond Law of Thermodynamics [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Identify the following laws. Also known as the Nernst Heat Theorem, what law states that absolute zero cannot be reached in a finite number of steps? - ttddThird Law of Thermodynamics [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Identify the following laws. If current density is constant, the Biot-Savart law is the same as this law that includes the time derivative of the electric field. Maxwell added the displacement current correction to this law that states the path integral of the magnetic field is proportional to the current enclosed by the path. Identify this law that shares it name with the SI unit for current. - ttddAmpere's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following SI units. What is the SI unit of luminous intensity? - ttddCandela
Physical Science: Identify the following SI units. What is the SI unit of capacitance? - ttddFarad
Physical Science: Identify the following SI units. This SI unit is named after a scientist who has a namesake death ray and was a proponent of alternating current. That scientist also names an electrical coil. Identify this SI unit for magnetic field strength. - ttddTesla
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and equations. What law states that PV equals nRT and is a combination of several other laws? - ttddIdeal Gas Law
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and equations. What law states the index of refraction of the medium being exited times the sine of the angle of incidence equals the index of refraction of the medium being entered times the sine of the angle of refraction? - ttddSnell's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and equations. The Hammett function is related to this equation that can be used to find the isoelectric point. Relating the pKa and the log of the conjugate base over the acid, is what equation that can be used to calculate the pH of a buffer solution? - ttddHenderson-Hasselbalch Equation
Physical Science: Identify the following astronomical objects. What barred spiral galaxy is home to our Solar System? - ttddMilky Way
Physical Science: Identify the following astronomical objects. The closest spiral galaxy to the Milky Way is what galaxy that is eventually expected to collide with it? - ttddAndromeda
Physical Science: Identify the following astronomical objects. The Kerr metric is used to describe these objects, and the Penrose process gains energy from these. These objects have a region known as the ergosphere and a Schwarzschild radius. The no-hair theorem deals with what objects from which light cannot escape? - ttddBlack holes
Physical Science: Answer these questions about simple machines. Commonly referred at as a ramp, is what simple machine that is a tilted surface? - ttddInclined plane
Physical Science: Answer these questions about simple machines. What simple machine can be viewed as a narrow inclined plane wrapped around a cylinder? - ttddScrew
Physical Science: Answer these questions about simple machines. Though not pendulums, two of these can be used in a system to exhibit chaotic motion, and a massless and frictionless one of these machines are utilized in an Atwood Machine. Identify this simple machine that is a wheel on which a rope moves. - ttddPulley
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and principles. What principle states that a system in equilibrium will shift to counteract any change in pressure, temperature, volume, or concentration? - ttddLe Chatelier's Principle
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and principles. What law states that the enthalpy of a reaction is simply the sum of the enthalpies for the individual steps? - ttddHess's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and principles. Poisson's ratio can be used to write this law that is associated with Voigt notation. Green's tensor is used in one form of this law that has an anisotropic form. Cauchy generalized this law to three-dimensions, and it states that stress is directly proportional to strain. Identify this law stated F equals negative k x that is used to calculate the restoring force of a spring. - ttddHooke's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. What quantity is the amount of heat needed to raise the temperature of one gram of substance by one degree Celsius? - ttddSpecific Heat
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. Used in Snell's Law, what quantity is the ratio of the speed of light in a material to that in a vacuum? - ttddIndex of Refraction
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. The splitting of spectral lines by this is the Zeeman Effect, and the Biot-Savart Law calculates the strength of this. Equal to the curl of the vector potential, this is expelled by a superconductor in the Meissner Effect. Identify this quantity that is measured in Tesla and denoted with a capital B. - ttddMagnetic Field
Physical Science: Identify the following groupings of elements. Group 18 consisting of elements like neon and krypton that have full valence shells is also known by what name? - ttddNoble Gases or Inert gases
Physical Science: Identify the following groupings of elements. Group 17 consisting of elements like chlorine and iodine is also known by what name? - ttddHalogens
Physical Science: Identify the following groupings of elements. The Jahn-Teller effect can be seen in elements in this group, and most of these elements are paramagnetic and have multiple oxidation states. The lanthanides and actinides belong to this group that are f- and d-block elements. Identify this group that is located in the middle of the periodic table. - ttddTransition metals or Transition elements [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Questions will deal with free-body diagrams used in physics. What is the name for the force drawn downward on an object, because of its weight? - ttddGravitational or Gravity
Physical Science: Questions will deal with free-body diagrams used in physics. Opposing the gravitational force when an object is in contact with a horizontal surface is what force, drawn with an upward arrow? - ttddNormal
Physical Science: Questions will deal with free-body diagrams used in physics. An object slides to the right along a horizontal surface. What force that is created whenever one surfaces moves across another is drawn with an arrow pointing to the left? - ttddFrictional
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical formulas. What is the name of the ionic compound with formula C-A-C-O-3 (CaCO3)? - ttddCalcium carbonate
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical formulas. What is the name of the ionic compound with formula N-A-N-O-3 (NaNO3)? - ttddSodium nitrate
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical formulas. What is the formula for the ionic compound known as potassium permanganate? - ttddK-M-N-O-4 (KMnO4)
Physical Science: For questions in this category, round all molar masses to whole numbers when doing your calculations. You will have 30 seconds to answer. What is the molarity of a solution containing 32 grams of O-two (O2) in 2 liters of solution? - ttdd0.5 molar
Physical Science: For questions in this category, round all molar masses to whole numbers when doing your calculations. You will have 30 seconds to answer. What is the molarity of a solution containing 4 grams of H-two (H2) in 2 liters of solution? - ttdd1 molar
Physical Science: For questions in this category, round all molar masses to whole numbers when doing your calculations. You will have 30 seconds to answer. What is the molarity of a solution containing 36 grams of carbon in 12 liters of solution? - ttdd0.25 molar
Physical Science: Identify the following planetary moons. What moon is the only planetary moon with its own atmosphere and is the largest moon of Saturn? - ttddTitan
Physical Science: Identify the following planetary moons. What moon has cantaloupe terrain and a retrograde orbit? It is the largest moon of Neptune. - ttddTriton
Physical Science: Identify the following planetary moons. What only moon in the solar system with a magnetosphere is this largest moon in the solar system, and is a moon of Jupiter? - ttddGanymede
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planets in our Solar System. The Great White Spot is located on what planet whose rings contain the Cassini Division? - ttddSaturn
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planets in our Solar System. Maxwell Montes is the highest point on what planet that has the highest surface temperature of any planet in the solar system? - ttddVenus
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planets in our Solar System. The Caloris Basin is located on what planet that is currently being visited by MESSENGER? - ttddMercury
Physical Science: Answer these questions about stars. What astronomical diagram plots several characteristic of stars, including color and brightness? - ttddHertzsprung-Russell Diagram or HR Diagram
Physical Science: Answer these questions about stars. A large number of the stars on the HR diagram are clustered along a diagonal known by what name? - ttddMain Sequence
Physical Science: Answer these questions about stars. What objects are rapidly revolving neutron stars that emit periodic bursts of radiation? - ttddPulsar(s)
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What Russian scientist developed the first formulation of the periodic table of elements? - ttddDmitri Mendeleev
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What scientist advocated megadoses of Vitamin C and won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, as well as the Nobel Peace Prize? - ttddLinus Pauling
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What man coined the terms oxygen and hydrogen and formulated the law of conservation of mass? - ttddAntoine Lavoisier
Physical Science: Identify these chemical compounds. The Haber-Bosch process is used to create what compound with formula N-H-3? - ttddAmmonia
Physical Science: Identify these chemical compounds. Friedrich Kekule discovered the structure of what compound with formula C-6-H-6? - ttddBenzene
Physical Science: Identify these chemical compounds. Acid rain and car batteries contain what acid with formula H-2-S-O-4? - ttddSulfuric acid
Physical Science: Answer these questions about energy. Equal to one-half times mass times velocity squared is what energy of motion? - ttddKinetic energy
Physical Science: Answer these questions about energy. Equal to mass times acceleration due to gravity times height is what energy of position? - ttddPotential energy
Physical Science: Answer these questions about energy. The difference of this value for a forward and reverse reaction yields the enthalpy of reaction, and this quantity appears in the Arrhenius Equation. Usually denoted E-sub-A is what type of energy that must be overcome for a reaction to occur? - ttddActivation energy
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. The Allred-Rochow and Pauling scales can be used to measure what quantity that describes an atom's ability to attract electrons? - ttddElectronegativity
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. The natural log of the number of microstates can be used to calculate what quantity that always increases for an irreversible process and is the measure of a system's disorder? - ttddEntropy [do not accept Enthalpy]
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. Hess's Law can be used to calculate what quantity that is the measure of a system's heat capacity? - ttddEnthalpy [do not accept Entropy]
Physical Science: Identify these scientific phenomena. Young's Double Slit experiment demonstrated what phenomenon in which light bends upon encountering an obstacle? - ttddDiffraction
Physical Science: Identify these scientific phenomena. What effect describes a system's tendency to oscillate more strongly when driven at certain frequencies and was the cause of the Tacoma Narrows Bridge collapse? - ttddResonance
Physical Science: Identify these scientific phenomena. What effect is the shift in the axis of a rotating body and is the reason gyroscopes work the way they do? - ttddPrecession
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. Which law states that at a fixed temperature, the pressure and volume of a gas are inversely proportional? - ttddBoyle's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. Which law states that at a fixed pressure, the temperature and volume of a gas are directly proportional? - ttddCharles's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. For ideal mixtures, this law is equivalent to Raoult's Law, and it explains the Bends experienced by deep-sea divers. Relating the dissolved concentration of a gas to its partial pressure above the solvent is what law of chemistry? - ttddHenry's Law
Physical Science: Answer these questions about a physical property. What physical property is a measure of how resistant solid matter is to various kinds of permanent shape change when a compressive force is applied. - ttddHardness
Physical Science: Answer these questions about a physical property. Hardness is typically measured on what scale, on which talc is a one? - ttddMohs Hardness Scale
Physical Science: Answer these questions about a physical property. The continuous branch of Bowen's reaction series consists of forms of this mineral that comes in orthoclase and plagioclase varieties. The most abundant type of mineral on Earth is what mineral that rates a six on the Mohs hardness scale? - ttddFeldspars
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. Thiols are a functional group containing what element that is found in the amino acid cysteine and forms namesake bridges? - ttddSulfur
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. What element binds to troponin for muscle contraction, is increased by Vitamin D, and its carbonate form makes limestone? - ttddCalcium
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. What element with atomic number five combines with silica to make Pyrex? - ttddBoron
Physical Science: Given a mineral, identify what number it is classified as on the Mohs hardness scale. Topaz - ttdd8
Physical Science: Given a mineral, identify what number it is classified as on the Mohs hardness scale. Calcite - ttdd3
Physical Science: Given a mineral, identify what number it is classified as on the Mohs hardness scale. Corundum - ttdd9
Physical Science: Identify the following processes. The primary energy source for the sun is what process in which lighter elements are combined to form heavier elements? - ttddNuclear fusion
Physical Science: Identify the following processes. Used in atom bombs and some electric power plants is what process that the nucleus of a particle is split into smaller parts, releasing energy? - ttddNuclear fission
Physical Science: Identify the following processes. The Smoluchowski model describes this process which is governed by Fick's Laws. When water undergoes this process, it is known as osmosis. Identify this process in which particles move from an area of higher concentration to an area of lower concentration. - ttddDiffusion
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. What elements is extracted from the ore bauxite and refined in the Hall-Heroult process? - ttddAluminum
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. The Mond process can be used to extract what transition metal that was also used in the Davisson-Germer Experiment? - ttddNickel
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. Red giants eventually fuse into a core of this element before going supernova, and it is found in hematite, which gives Mars its red color. A "pig" type of this metal exists, and rust forms on it in most air. Identify this metallic element that can have a plus two or plus three charge and is symbolized Fe. - ttddIron
Physical Science: Identify these particles. What particle is a helium nucleus, meaning that it consists of two protons and two neutrons? - ttddAlpha particle
Physical Science: Identify these particles. What particle is a quanta of light that carries the electromagnetic force? - ttddPhoton
Physical Science: Identify these particles. What "God particle" was discovered at CERN and explains how some particles acquire mass? - ttddHiggs boson
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about phases of matter. What phase change sees a solid changed into a gas? - ttddSublimation
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about phases of matter. What phase change sees a gas changed into a solid? - ttddDeposition
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about phases of matter. What phase change sees a gas changed into a plasma? - ttddIonization
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and principles. What principle of fluid dynamics states an increase in the speed of a fluid will result in a decrease in pressure? - ttddBernoulli's Principle
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and principles. What principle states the buoyant force on an object in a fluid is equal to the weight of the fluid that the body displaces? - ttddArchimedes' Principle
Physical Science: Identify the following laws and principles. Slater determinants are used to ensure a system obeys this law, and electron degeneracy pressure of white dwarfs are a consequence of it. Applying to fermions but not bosons, is what principle stating electrons in the same subshell must have different spins? - ttddPauli Exclusion Principle [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Answer the following astronomy questions. What object, the first in Messier's [mes-ee-ey] catalogue, is a cloudy entity with a pulsar at the center? It is located in the constellation Taurus. - ttddCrab Nebula
Physical Science: Answer the following astronomy questions. Powered by accretion disks formed from a supermassive black hole are what objects that are extremely distant and the most luminous objects in the universe that can be classified as radio-quiet or radio-loud? - ttddQuasars
Physical Science: Answer the following astronomy questions. Kreutz [k r OO t s] names one subset of these objects that are the subject of the Whipple Model. The Giotto [jot-oh] and Deep Impact probe studied these objects, one of which, Shoemaker Levy 9, collided with Jupiter. Hale-Bopp and Halley are other examples of what astronomical objects that have tails of dust and gas? - ttddComets
Physical Science: Identify the following groups of organic compounds. What group of hydrocarbons consists only of single bonds? - ttddAlkanes [do NOT accept alkenes or alkynes]
Physical Science: Identify the following groups of organic compounds. What group of hydrocarbons has two carbon atoms double bonded together? - ttddAlkenes [do NOT accept alkanes or alkynes]
Physical Science: Identify the following groups of organic compounds. Two of these compounds are used to produce an ether in the Williamson Synthesis, and Jones' reagent [ree-ey-juh nt] will oxidize these compounds to a carboxylic acid. Coming in secondary and tertiary [tur-shee-er-ee] types, they can be used to synthesize an ester in a process named for Fischer. Identify this group of organic compounds that is characterized by their hydroxyl group. - ttddAlcohols
Physical Science: Identify the following subatomic particles. What class of particles have integral spin and are not subject to the Pauli Exclusion Principle? - ttddBosons
Physical Science: Identify the following subatomic particles. A subclass of bosons, what class of particles consist of a quark and an antiquark and include the pion and kaon? - ttddMesons
Physical Science: Identify the following subatomic particles. Francisco-Miguel Marques studied this particle that was discovered in an experiment using beryllium [buh-ril-ee-uh m]. Existing in free clusters of four and created by electron capture, this particle is composed of one up quark and two down quarks. Discovered by James Chadwick, identify this particle found in the nucleus with protons. - ttddNeutrons
Physical Science: Answers these questions about materials and states of matter. What fourth state of matter can be found in lightning and neon signs? - ttddPlasma
Physical Science: Answers these questions about materials and states of matter. What fifth state of matter was discovered by laser cooling rubidium atoms and is named after an Indian physicist and a German physicist? - ttddBose-Einstein Condensates or BECs
Physical Science: Answers these questions about materials and states of matter. These entities can be described by Miller indices, and Bravais lattices can be also be used to describe them. They come in face-centered-cubic and body-centered-cubic forms. Identify these substances that are ordered arrangements of atoms, such as quartz. - ttddCrystals [prompt on minerals]
Physical Science: Identify the following phase changes. What name is given to the phase change when a solid transitions directly to a gas? - ttddSublimation
Physical Science: Identify the following phase changes. What name is given to the phase change when a gas transitions directly to a solid? - ttddDeposition
Physical Science: Identify the following phase changes. If nucleation sites are suddenly added, substances may undergo the flash type of this phase change that happens when the vapor pressure is equal to the partial pressure. Distillation separates mixtures based on ways in which what phase change from a liquid to a gas occur? - ttddVaporization or Evaporation or Boiling
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. What element's bicarbonate is baking soda and chloride is table salt? - ttddSodium
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. What most abundant element in Earth's atmosphere is found in amine and laughing gas? - ttddNitrogen
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical elements. The Hunter process used to be used to extract this element; however, the Kroll process is currently used. Found with aluminum in the Ziegler-Natta catalyst is what transition metal with a silver color, atomic number twenty-two, and atomic symbol Ti? - ttddTitanium
Physical Science: Identify the following experiments. Robert Millikan performed what experiment that measured the charge of an electron? - ttddMillikan Oil Drop Experiment
Physical Science: Identify the following experiments. Thomas Young performed what experiment that demonstrated the wave nature of light and involved the namesake apparatus? - ttddYoung's Double-Slit Experiment
Physical Science: Identify the following experiments. Dayton Miller conducted this experiment again and did not get different results, while Trouton and Noble confirmed this experiment's results. Utilizing a beam of light split by a half-silvered mirror and an interferometer was what experiment conducted at Case Western Reserve that disproved the existence of luminiferous ether? - ttddMichelson-Morley Experiment
Physical Science: Identify the following regions. Named for its high concentration of charged particles is what part of the atmosphere that lies above the mesosphere? - ttddIonosphere
Physical Science: Identify the following regions. The ionosphere is technically a part of what layer of the atmosphere that is named for its extremely high temperatures? - ttddThermosphere
Physical Science: Identify the following regions. The Chikyu Hakken project is currently trying to reach this region that contains the D double prime layer. Bounded by the Gutenburg and Moho discontinuities, this region produces plumes that form hotspots. Containing the asthenosphere and lithosphere is what region of the earth that lies between the crust and the core? - ttddMantle
Physical Science: Identify the following processes. What method of heat transfer occurs from direct contact like a frying pan on an oven burner? - ttddConduction
Physical Science: Identify the following processes. What method of heat transfer deals with the movement of particles in a fluid and is seen in the Earth's mantle? - ttddConvection
Physical Science: Identify the following processes. The Kolbe reaction and the Fleischmann-Pons experiment both utilize this process that is also used by the Castner-Kellner and Hall-Heroult processes. When applied to water, this process yields hydrogen and oxygen gas. Identify this process that uses a current to break down compounds. - ttddElectrolysis
Physical Science: Identify the following phenomena. What type of scattering named after an English scientist has an effect on the sun that explains why the sky appears blue? - ttddRayleigh Scattering
Physical Science: Identify the following phenomena. High energy photons lose energy when colliding with an electron in what type of scattering named for an American scientist? - ttddCompton Scattering
Physical Science: Identify the following phenomena. This effect deals with the quantity found by taking the work function over Planck's constant, and will not occur if incident light is not past the threshold frequency. Heinrich Hertz was the first to discover this effect that Einstein won a Nobel Prize for. Identify this effect in which incident light on the surface of a metal releases electrons. - ttddPhotoelectric Effect
Physical Science: Answer these questions concerning SI units. What is the SI unit of pressure? - ttddPascals
Physical Science: Answer these questions concerning SI units. What is the SI unit of energy? - ttddJoules
Physical Science: Answer these questions concerning SI units. Toss-Up: The Schrodinger equation can be dependent on this quantity, and the impulse is equal to the integral of force with respect to this quantity. This quantity can dilate in special relativity, and hyperfine transitions in cesium are used to define its SI unit. What is this quantity that is measured in seconds? - ttddTime
Physical Science: Identify the following simple machines. These simple machines consist of a rigid beam and a fulcrum, and seesaws are an example. - ttddLevers
Physical Science: Identify the following simple machines. These simple machines consist of an inclined plane wrapped around a cylinder. - ttddScrews
Physical Science: Identify the following simple machines. Toss-Up: A metal and a plastic one of these are present in Van de Graaff generators, and a frictionless and massless one of these simple machines is used in an Atwood's machine. Block and tackle systems use these. Identify these simple machines that consist of a string being wrapped around a wheel. - ttddPulleys
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical bonds. In what type of bond is an electron given from one atom to another and is used to bond positively and negatively charged atoms? - ttddIonic bond
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical bonds. What type of bond is characterized by the sharing of electrons between two atoms? - ttddCovalent bond
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical bonds. Toss-Up: The Zimm-Bragg model shows these structures that allow carboxylic acids to form dimers and these structures explain many of water's special properties such as the low density of ice. Forming most commonly between fluorine, oxygen, nitrogen, and their namesake element are what type of bonds? - ttddHydrogen bonds
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. What gas law states that at a constant pressure, a gas's volume is directly proportional to temperature? - ttddCharles's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. What gas law states that at a constant volume, a gas's pressure is directly proportional to temperature? - ttddGay-Lussac's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following gas laws. Toss-Up: The proportionality constant in this law relates the chemical potential of solute atoms and infinite dilution. This law is related to the Gibbs-Duhem equation. This law describes why deep sea divers get the bends and, for ideal mixtures, it is equal to Raoult's Law. Identify this law stating that the concentration of gas dissolved in liquid is proportional to the partial pressure of the gas above that liquid. - ttddHenry's Law
Physical Science: Answer these questions about minerals. What scale is used to measure the hardness of minerals? - ttddMohs Hardness Scale
Physical Science: Answer these questions about minerals. What mineral defines a one on the Mohs Hardness Scale? - ttddTalc
Physical Science: Answer these questions about minerals. Toss-Up: This mineral and moganite are known as chalcedony. This mineral, found at the bottom of Bowen's reaction series, has a shocked form that was found at the K-T boundary. This mineral is known chemically as silicon dioxide, and it is found in amethyst, sandstone, and granite. Identify this mineral that ranks a seven on the Mohs Hardness Scale. - ttddQuartz [prompt on "silicon dioxide" before mentioned]
Physical Science: Identify the following quantities. What measure of concentration is defined as the moles of solute divided by the liters of solution? - ttddMolarity or Molar concentration
Physical Science: Identify the following quantities. What measure of concentration is defined as the moles of solute divided by the kilograms of solvent? - ttddMolality
Physical Science: Identify the following quantities. Toss-Up: The Prandtl number is this quantity divided by the rate of thermal diffusivity, and thixotropic materials are time dependent on this quantity. This quantity can be measured in Poise or Stokes, and it is constant for Newtonian fluids. Coming in kinematic and dynamic types, identify this quantity that is a measure of a fluid's resistance to flow. - ttddViscosity
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. What electrical devices are used as amplifiers and switches and were used in a namesake type of radio? - ttddTransistors
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. What circuit components are used to step up or step down an input voltage? - ttddTransformers
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. Toss-Up: Johnson-Nyquist noise is created by these devices and four of these devices are connected in a Wheatstone bridge. The property associated with these devices decreased as the cross-sectional area of them increases and they add directly when in series. Notated by a zig-zag symbol, identify these circuit components that oppose electrical current. - ttddResistors
Physical Science: Identify the following laws or principles. What law named after an English scientist states that the force exerted by a gas is equal to the sum of the forces of its component gases? - ttddDalton's Law of Partial Pressures [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Identify the following laws or principles. Team C: What principle named after a French scientist states that when a reaction is subjected to a stress, it will shift to counteract that stress? - ttddLeChatelier's Principle
Physical Science: Identify the following laws or principles. What law states that regardless of the multiple stages or steps of a reaction, the total enthalpy change for the reaction is the sum of all changes? - ttddHess's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following important "points." What name is given to the temperature above which ferromagnetic substances become paramagnetic? - ttddCurie point
Physical Science: Identify the following important "points." What name is given to the point above which the liquid and gas states of matter are indistinguishable? - ttddCritical point
Physical Science: Identify the following important "points." Toss-Up: This point is used to classify azeotropes as positive or negative, and at this point, the vapor pressure is equal to the atmospheric pressures. Distillation separates substances based on this point, and putting salt into water will raise this value. Identify this temperature at which a liquid becomes a gas. - ttddBoiling point
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about forces. What gauge bosons mediate the strong force and bind quarks together? - ttddGluons
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about forces. Identify one of the two particles that mediate the weak force. - ttddW or Z bosons [prompt on "bosons"]
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about forces. Toss-Up: This force is described as a function of velocity in the Stribeck effect and the Dahl effect describes this force over a small distance. A tribometer can be used to measure this force that is the subject of Amontons' laws. Directly proportional to the normal force and coming in static and kinetic types, identify this force that opposes motion when two objects touch. - ttddFriction
Physical Science: Answer these questions about phases of matter. What fourth phase of matter is made up of ions and electrons? - ttddPlasma
Physical Science: Answer these questions about phases of matter. What phase change takes place when a gas changes into a plasma? - ttddIonization or Ionizing
Physical Science: Answer these questions about phases of matter. Toss-Up: Hawking radiation is this process happening to black holes and, if nucleation sites are suddenly added, substances can undergo the flash type of this. Dissolving solutes in a solution raises the temperature at which this occurs. Identify this phase change that sees a liquid turn into a gas. - ttddVaporization or Evaporation or Boiling
Physical Science: Identify the following alloys. What substance is an alloy of copper and tin? - ttddBronze
Physical Science: Identify the following alloys. What substance is an alloy of copper and zinc? - ttddBrass
Physical Science: Identify the following alloys. Toss-Up: This alloy has austenite and martensite forms, and adding ten and a half percent chromium to this alloy will allow it to resist corrosion. This alloy is made in a process that removes excess sulfur and carbon and is named the Bessemer process. Identify this alloy of carbon and iron that comes in a "stainless" variety. - ttddSteel
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. This scientist described hydrogen as "inflammable air" and gave a measurement of the gravitational constant using a torsion balance. - ttddHenry Cavendish
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. This scientist names a law of blackbody radiation, founded quantum theory and names a constant that is symbolized by a lowercase h. - ttddMax Planck
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist names rings for interference patterns that are created by air between a lens and a glass, and he names a law of cooling. This man first proposed the gravitational constant in his Principia Mathematica, and he is the namesake of the SI unit of force. Identify this scientist who formulated his namesake three laws of motion. - ttddSir Isaac Newton
Physical Science: Answer these questions about lab procedures. During a titration, what color changing substances are used to determine the pH of a solution? - ttddIndicator
Physical Science: Answer these questions about lab procedures. During a titration, what graduated glass tube with a tap on the end is used to slowly release the titrant into the flask or beaker below? - ttddBuret
Physical Science: Answer these questions about lab procedures. Toss-Up: The Fleischmann-Pons experiment used this process that is used by the Kolbe reaction. Faraday names a law for this process explaining that the mass obtained is proportional to the charge applied. When applied to water, this process yields hydrogen gas and oxygen gas. Identify this process that uses a current to breakdown compounds. - ttddElectrolysis
Physical Science: Identify these properties that a substance may possess. This property allows a material to be hammered into sheets. - ttddMalleability or Malleable
Physical Science: Identify these properties that a substance may possess. This property allows a material to drawn out into a wire. - ttddDuctility or Ductile
Physical Science: Identify these properties that a substance may possess. Toss-Up: The magnetic field is related to this quantity by the Stoletov curve and Huesler alloys exhibit this property. Materials with this property have Weiss domains, it is associated with the Barkhausen effect, and it disappears above the Curie temperature. Identify this type of magnetism that is exhibited by cobalt, nickel, and its namesake metal, iron. - ttddFerromagnetism
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. What instrument is used to measure electrical potential difference between two points in a circuit? - ttddVoltmeter
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. What instrument is used to measure the current flowing through a circuit? - ttddAmmeter
Physical Science: Identify the following circuit components. Toss-Up: The metric for these devices is equal to permittivity times the ratio of area to spacing, and the reservoir type of these reduces ripple in an AC current. These devices stop working at the breakdown voltage and a dielectric can be added to make them stronger. Leyden jars were an early example of what devices that store charge in circuits? - ttddCapacitors
Physical Science: Answer these questions about pressure. What name is given to the pressure of gas above a solution? - ttddVapor pressure
Physical Science: Answer these questions about pressure. What name is given to the minimum pressure that must be applied to a solution to prevent the inward flow of water across a semipermeable membrane? - ttddOsmotic pressure
Physical Science: Answer these questions about pressure. Toss-Up: This statement is an integration of Euler's equation, and it is used to derive Torricelli's Law. This law is used to describe the Venturi effect and is applied in the creation of pitot tubes. Explaining, in part, an airplane's ability to achieve lift, is what principle stating that an increase in fluid velocity results in a decrease in fluid pressure? - ttddBernoulli's Principle
Physical Science: Identify the following laws. What law states that the partial pressure of a component of a solution is equal to its mole fraction times its vapor pressure? - ttddRaoult's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following laws. What fundamental law of spectrophotometry states that the absorbance is linearly related to concentration? - ttddBeer's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following laws. Toss-Up: This law is used in the Bordwell cycle to determine entropy and free energy, and it is used to calculate lattice energy in the Born-Haber cycle. Involving a quantity that is equal to enthalpy minus entropy times temperature, is what law stating that the total enthalpy change is equal to the sum of the enthalpy changes for each step of a process? - ttddHess's Law
Physical Science: Identify the following experiments. This experiment was conducted by two scientists working at Bell Labs and involved firing electrons at a nickel crystal. It confirmed de Broglie's theory of wave-particle duality. - ttddDavisson-Germer experiment
Physical Science: Identify the following experiments. This experiment was conducted by two German scientists and involved firing a beam of silver through a magnetic field. It demonstrated the existence of spin. - ttddStern-Gerlach experiment
Physical Science: Identify the following experiments. Toss-Up: A version of this experiment using electrons was done by Clauss Jonson and this experiment saw interference fringes, or alternating bright and dark bands. Light was passed through the namesake openings in what experiment conducted by Thomas Young that shows the wave quality of light? - ttddYoung's Double-Slit experiment [accept Young's experiment before Young]
Physical Science: Identify the following physical phenomena. This property of a wave means that it is oscillating in a single plane and it is used by many sunglasses to reduce glare. - ttddPolarization or Polarized
Physical Science: Identify the following physical phenomena. Identify this property that a crystal can possess in which it has two different indices of refraction along different axes, resulting in a ray of light being decomposed into two rays of light. - ttddBirefringence or Double refraction
Physical Science: Identify the following physical phenomena. Toss-Up: This phenomenon has a Lense-Thirring variety and can be visualized using the Poinsot ellipsoid. The Larmor type of this process is used in NMR spectroscopy, and this process has torque free and torque induced varieties. What phenomenon is the shift of the rotating axis of a body and can be seen in tops and gyroscopes? - ttddPrecession
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Boron and silicon are examples of what type of elements that lie along a staircase on the periodic table and have both metal and nonmetal properties? - ttddMetalloids
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Nickel and iron are examples of what types of elements that are the f- and d-block elements found in the middle of the periodic table? - ttddTransition metals
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Toss-Up: These elements' heaviest member was discovered when californium was bombarded with calcium. William Ramsay discovered several elements in this group. Elements in this group have the highest first ionization energies and are inert, as they have full valence shells. Including xenon, krypton, and radon is what group of elements at the far right of the periodic table? - ttddNoble gases or Group 18 or Group VIIIA
Physical Science: Identify the following compounds. With formula CH2O, is what simplest aldehyde that is often used as a preservative in anatomy laboratories? - ttddFormaldehyde
Physical Science: Identify the following compounds. With formula CHCl3, is what compound that used to be used as an anesthetic and is used by some criminals to knock out their victims? - ttddChloroform
Physical Science: Identify the following compounds. Toss-Up: Sodium is dissolved in this compound in the Birch reduction, and nitric acid is made by combining this compound with oxygen in the Ostwald process. This compound produces a silver mirror in the presence of aldehydes and is converted to urea for excretion in humans. Identify this compound with formula NH3. - ttddAmmonia
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. What period of elements consists of elements fifty-seven through seventy-one and contain a partially filled 4f subshell? - ttddLanthanides or Lanthanoids [prompt on "rare earth metals"]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. What period of elements consists of elements eighty-nine through one hundred three and contain a partially filled 5f subshell? - ttddActinides or Actinoids
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Toss-Up: These elements are used in Lugol's test to detect starch in solutions and they are used in the Finkelstein SN2 reaction. Elements in this group form Grignard reagents with magnesium, and this is the only group to contain a solid, liquid, and gas at room temperature. Forming ions with a minus one charge is what group of elements that includes bromine, iodine, and chlorine? - ttddHalogens or Group 17 or Group VIIA
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. What stars appear on the lower left corner of the HR diagram and have an upper mass limit known as the Chandrasekhar limit? - ttddWhite dwarves [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. What stars appear to the lower right of the main sequence on the HR diagram and are failed stars that lack the mass to initiate fusion? - ttddBrown dwarves [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. Toss-Up: These events can capture neutrons in the r-process and can be classified by the silicon absorption line and their Balmer series. Responsible for the creation of the Crab Nebula, these events occur from a core collapse. When a white dwarf exceeds the Chandrasekhar limit, what stellar explosions occur? - ttddSupernovas
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. This woman was the first woman to win a Nobel Prize. She studied radioactivity, and she discovered radium and polonium in pitchblende. - ttddMarie Curie
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. This German scientist is responsible for discovering x-rays. - ttddWilhelm Roentgen
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: This man's acceleration is given by charged particles reflected by a magnetic mirror, and with Dirac, he names a distribution dealing with energies of single particles. The namesake of particles with half-integer spin, identify this scientist who named neutrinos and built the world's first nuclear reactor as part of the Manhattan Project. - ttddEnrico Fermi
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. This French physicist used his namesake wavelength when being the first to theorize the wave-particle duality of light. - ttddLouis Victor de Broglie
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. This Dutch scientist developed the pendulum clock and discovered Titan while studying the rings of Saturn. - ttddChristiaan Huygens
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist developed a radiative transport equation and with Maxwell, he names a distribution of gas particles. This man's law with Stefan describes the energy released from a black body, and entropy can be calculated as his constant times the natural log of the number of microstates. Identify this scientist whose constant is equal to the gas constant divided by Avogadro's constant, and is denoted k-sub-b. - ttddLudwig Boltzmann
Physical Science: Answer these questions about subatomic particles. What class of particles contains any particles made out of quarks, such as baryons and mesons? - ttddHadrons
Physical Science: Answer these questions about subatomic particles. All particles belong to either fermions or what class of particles that have integral spin? - ttddBosons
Physical Science: Answer these questions about subatomic particles. Toss-Up: The reciprocal relationship between the eigenvalues of the mass matrix of these particles is termed the seesaw mechanism, and they were detected in radiation from Supernova 1987A. The PMNS matrix models these particles that were the subject of the Homestake Experiment. Identify these nearly massless, uncharged particles that have tau, muon, and electron varieties. - ttddNeutrinos
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What scientist developed the first version of the periodic table of elements, which notably omitted the Noble gases? - ttddDmitri Mendeleev
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What scientist discovered oxygen and described it as "dephlogisticated air?" - ttddJoseph Priestley
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist discovered the existence of allotropes by showing that graphite and diamond are both made of carbon. He hypothesized that all acids contain oxygen. This man who formulated the law of conservation of mass coined the terms oxygen and hydrogen. Identify this "father of modern chemistry" who wrote the first chemistry textbook. - ttddAntoine Lavoisier
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. Amines, amides, and azides all contain what chemical element? - ttddNitrogen
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. Thiols are functional groups that include a hydrogen atom and an atom of what other element? - ttddSulfur
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. Toss-Up: Two of these compounds are used to produce an ether in the Williamson synthesis, and the Jones reagent will oxidize them into carboxylic acids. These compounds that come in secondary and tertiary types react with carboxylic acids to form esters in the Fischer esterification. Identify these compounds that contain a hydroxyl group and include ethanol. - ttddAlcohols
Physical Science: Given the name of an element, give its symbol on the periodic table. Lead - ttddPb
Physical Science: Given the name of an element, give its symbol on the periodic table. Team C: Copper - ttddCu
Physical Science: Given the name of an element, give its symbol on the periodic table. Tungsten - ttddW
Physical Science: Answer these questions about particular laws. Newton's First Law of Motion can be summarized using what word that refers to an object's resistance to change its motion? - ttddInertia
Physical Science: Answer these questions about particular laws. Newton's Third Law of Motion states that for every force, there is another force with what two qualities? - ttddEqual and opposite [in any order]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about particular laws. Toss-Up: Adding a and b to this equation accounts for the forces between particles and the space that they occupy, resulting in the van der Waals equation. This law uses a namesake constant R and combines Gay-Lussac's, Charles's, and Boyle's laws. Identify this gas law stating the PV equals nRT. - ttddIdeal Gas Law
Physical Science: Answer these questions about natural phenomena. What logarithmic scale is used to measure the strength of earthquakes? - ttddRichter scale
Physical Science: Answer these questions about natural phenomena. What scale that ranges from F0 to F5 is used to measure the strength of tornadoes? - ttddFujita scale
Physical Science: Answer these questions about natural phenomena. Toss-Up: Floods known as jokulhlaups can result from these objects, and when they form under a glacier, they are known as a tuya. Calderas form from the collapse of these objects that create pyroclastic flow. Shield and cinder cone are types of what objects that emit pahoehoe (pa-hoy-hoy) and a'a (ah-ah) lava? - ttddVolcanoes
Physical Science: Answer these questions about systems. When a chemical system is in this state, a reaction proceeds at the same rate as its reverse reaction. - ttddEquilibrium
Physical Science: Answer these questions about systems. What principle states that a system in equilibrium will shift to counteract a change in an effort to restore equilibrium? - ttddLe Chatelier's principle
Physical Science: Answer these questions about systems. Toss-Up: If an exponent is added to this law equal to the specific heat ratio, it will describe any isentropic process. Edme Mariotte independently discovered this law that is named after the author of The Skeptical Chymist. What law states that pressure and volume are inversely related or PV equals a constant? - ttddBoyle's Law
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What astronomer developed his namesake tuning fork diagram and was the namesake of the telescope that was replaced by the Webb telescope? - ttddEdwin Hubble
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What chemist predicted the properties of gallium and scandium and omitted the Noble Gases from the periodic table he developed? - ttddDmitri Mendeleev
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist described quantum entanglement as "spooky action at a distance." He developed the particle theory of light used to explain the photoelectric effect and studied the jiggling of pollen molecules to explain Brownian motion. The fifth state of matter is named after Bose and what scientist who stated that E equals m c-squared? - ttddAlbert Einstein
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical elements. Sodium and potassium belong to what group of elements that form ions with a plus one charge? - ttddAlkali metals
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical elements. Promethium and neodymium belong to what set of rare earth metals with atomic numbers fifty-seven to seventy-one? - ttddLanthanides or Lanthanoids
Physical Science: Answer these questions about chemical elements. Toss-Up: The red form of this element contains four atoms of it, and this element can form reactive radicals with unpaired electrons. The bridge of an ether contains this element that is the second most abundant element in Earth's atmosphere. Discovered by Joseph Priestley, identify this element with atomic number eight and symbol O. - ttddOxygen
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical compounds. What insoluble, inorganic compound has the chemical formula PbCl2? - ttddLead (II) Chloride OR Lead Dichloride (Do NOT accept Lead (I) Chloride)
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical compounds. What other insoluble compound that changes from white to yellow when heated has the formula Hg2Br2? - ttddMercury (I) Bromide OR Mercurous Bromide (Do NOT accept Mercury (II) Bromide)
Physical Science: Identify the following chemical compounds. Toss-Up: Due to resonance, this compound's bonds have a length of 140 picometers and this substance is reacted with sodium and an alcohol to form 1,4 cyclohexadiene in the Birch reaction. When a hydrogen is replaced with a methyl group, a derivative of this compound called toluene is formed. A dream about a snake biting its own tail inspired August Kekulé to theorize the structure of this compound. Identify this simplest aromatic hydrocarbon with the formula C6H6. - ttddBenzene
Physical Science: Identify these principles and equations. What principle states that when a system in equilibrium is subjected to stress, it will shift to counteract that stress? - ttddLe Chatelier's Principle
Physical Science: Identify these principles and equations. What doubly-eponymous equation is used to calculate the pH of buffer solutions? - ttddHenderson-Hasselbalch Equation
Physical Science: Identify these principles and equations. Toss-Up: This principle concerns the sum of potential and kinetic energy remaining constant along a streamline, and it explains the Venturi Effect. The creation of pitot tubes uses this principle that explains an airplane's' ability to achieve lift. Identify this principle stating that an increase in fluid velocity results in a decrease in pressure. - ttddBernoulli's Principle
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. Granite and basalt are types of what rocks that form from the cooling of magma or lava? - ttddIgneous rocks
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. What class of rocks are created by exposing igneous or sedimentary rocks to extreme heat and pressure? - ttddMetamorphic rocks
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. Toss-Up: The Schiller Effect is exhibited by this mineral that contains eight oxygen atoms and is found on the continuous branch of Bowen's reaction series. This mineral cleaves across planes, and it comes in plagioclase and orthoclase varieties. The most abundant mineral on Earth is what mineral that measures a six on the Mohs hardness scale? - ttddFeldspar
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What scientist discovered hydrogen and gave a measurement of the gravitational constant using a torsion balance? - ttddHenry Cavendish
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What scientist won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1904 for his discovery of five different Noble Gases? - ttddWilliam Ramsay
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: The electron magnetic dipole moment is measured in units named after this scientist. This scientist's namesake radius is approximately 0.53 angstroms and shows the expected value for the distance of an electron from the nucleus. With Heisenberg, this scientist pioneered the Copenhagen interpretation. Identify this Danish scientist whose model of the atom included electrons travelling in orbits. - ttddNiels Bohr
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. What scale is used to measure the strength of earthquakes? - ttddRichter Scale
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. Talc measures a one on what scale used to measure the hardness of minerals? - ttddMohs Hardness Scale
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. Toss-Up: These substances are described by Miller indices, and they can be described using Bravais lattices. These substances may be face-centered cubic or body-centered cubic. Identify these solids that are made up of an ordered arrangement of atoms known as a lattice. - ttddCrystals
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. What functional group consists of a sulfur atom bonded to a hydrogen? - ttddThiols or Mercaptans
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. What compounds are characterized by having a carbon atom bonded to an atom of nitrogen? - ttddAmines
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. Toss-Up: These compounds can be installed on a halide with a palladium catalyst in the Sonogashira Reaction, and they are synthesized from aldehydes in the Corey-Fuchs reaction. Acetylene is the simplest of what compounds that contain a carbon-carbon triple bond? - ttddAlkynes (do NOT accept "alkanes" or "alkenes")
Physical Science: 20 seconds for all team questions. Give the balanced chemical equation. (Use symbols for elements and compounds in your answer. For example, carbon dioxide should be expressed as CO2.) The synthesis of sodium chloride from solid sodium and chlorine gas. - ttdd2Na + Cl2 → 2NaCl
Physical Science: 20 seconds for all team questions. Give the balanced chemical equation. (Use symbols for elements and compounds in your answer. For example, carbon dioxide should be expressed as CO2.) The decomposition of magnesium oxide to solid magnesium and oxygen gas. - ttdd2MgO → 2Mg + O2
Physical Science: 20 seconds for all team questions. Give the balanced chemical equation. (Use symbols for elements and compounds in your answer. For example, carbon dioxide should be expressed as CO2.) Toss-Up: The decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen gas. - ttdd2H2O2 → 2H2O + O2
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about motion. What law states that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction? - ttddNewton's Third Law of Motion
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about motion. Newton's First Law deals with what concept that is the property of a body to remain in its state of motion? - ttddInertia
Physical Science: Answer the following questions about motion. Toss-Up: Planck's constant divided by the de Broglie wavelength yields this quantity that is also equal to energy over the speed of light. Force is the time derivative of this quantity by Newton's Second Law and an impulse will cause a change in it. Conserved in all collisions, is what quantity that can be found by multiplying mass and velocity? - ttddMomentum
Physical Science: Answer the following about space. What kind of rotating neutron stars can produce electromagnetic radiation and radio waves? - ttddPulsars
Physical Science: Answer the following about space. The Crab is an example of what type of interstellar cloud that is comprised of hydrogen, helium, and dust? - ttddNebulas
Physical Science: Answer the following about space. Toss-Up: BL Lacs differ from these objects due to their non-thermal continuum spectra and the "twin" type of this object is evidence of gravitational lensing. If absorption lines are below the Lyman Alpha line, a Gunn-Peterson trough is created within these objects. Accretion disks power these objects that possess high redshifts. Large amounts of electromagnetic radiation and energy are emitted by what entities whose name is short for "quasi-stellar object?" - ttddQuasars (accept quasi-stellar object until mentioned)
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planets' moons. What are the names of the two moons of Mars? - ttddPhobos and Deimos [in either order]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planets' moons. What Galilean moon of Jupiter is the largest moon in the solar system? - ttddGanymede
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planets' moons. Toss-Up: Ontario Lacus and Kraken Mare are lakes on this moon that contains the cryovolcanic dome Ganesa Macula. Regions on this moon include Xanadu and Shangri-la, and ammonia-water flows under its surface. The only moon with its own atmosphere in the solar system is what largest moon of Saturn? - ttddTitan
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table. What period of elements has partially filled 4f subshells and contains elements fifty-seven through seventy-one, including neodymium? - ttddLanthanides
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table. What period of elements has partially filled 5f subshells, lies below the lanthanides, and includes uranium? - ttddActinides
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table. Toss-Up: This scientist created a new isotope of iron, iron-59, which was used to study hemoglobin, and he collaborated with John Livingood to create iodine-131, which is still used to treat thyroid cancer. This man served as the Chairman of the United States Atomic Energy Commission for a decade, and he used deuterium to bombard uranium nuclei. The only scientist to ever have an element named in his honor while still living, was what man who discovered ten transuranium elements and is the namesake of element one hundred six? - ttddGlenn Seaborg
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. What is the SI unit of pressure? - ttddPascals
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. What is the SI unit of luminous intensity? - ttddCandelas
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. Toss-Up: This quantity is raised to the 3.5 power to find the luminosity of main sequence stars, and this quantity is generated by the Higgs boson. This quantity can be measured in daltons and it can be found by dividing force by acceleration. Identify this quantity that is often measured in kilograms. - ttddMass
Physical Science: Identify these laws. What law states that force is equal to mass times acceleration? - ttddNewton's Second Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these laws. What law states that an object at rest stays at rest and an object in motion stays in motion? - ttddNewton's First Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these laws. Toss-Up: Deviations from this law are modeled by the Joule-Thomson effect, and it was derived by Bernoulli using Newton's Laws. This law is sometimes named after Edme Mariotte, and its usual namesake wrote The Skeptical Chymist. Identify this gas law stating that pressure and volume are inversely proportional. - ttddBoyle's Law
Physical Science: Identify these planets. Titan is a moon of what planet that is the planet with the most moons and contains the Great White Spot? - ttddSaturn
Physical Science: Identify these planets. Titania and Oberon are moons of what planet that is tilted on its side? - ttddUranus
Physical Science: Identify these planets. Toss-Up: Giovanni Schiaparelli studied this planet that contains the Tharsis region and the Valles Marineris. The solar system's tallest mountain, Olympus Mons, is located on this planet that was explored by Spirit and Opportunity. Orbited by Phobos and Deimos, is what fourth planet from the Sun? - ttddMars
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What man who headed the British team working on the Manhattan Project is credited with discovering the neutron? - ttddJames Chadwick
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What man associated with the plum pudding model is credited with discovering the electron? - ttddJ.J. Thomson
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist names a conjecture on the best way to pack spheres, and with Poinsot, he names a stellated polyhedra. This man composed the Rudolphine Tables and the Cosmographic Mysteries. Tycho Brahe worked with what man who developed the three laws of planetary motion? - ttddJohannes Kepler
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Lithium and sodium belong to what group of the periodic table that form plus one ions? - ttddAlkali metals (accept Group 1 or Group IA)
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Magnesium and calcium belong to what group of the periodic table that form plus two ions? - ttddAlkaline earth metals (accept Group 2 or Group IIA)
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Toss-Up: These elements are used to detect starch in Lugol's test, and they are used in the Finkelstein SN2 reaction. These elements form Grignard reagents with magnesium, and this group is the only one to contain elements in all three states at room temperature. Including bromine, fluorine, and chlorine is what group on the periodic table? - ttddHalogens (accept Group 17 or Group VIIA)
Physical Science: Answer the following astronomy questions. The Stickney Crater is found on what moon of Mars that is paired with Deimos? - ttddPhobos
Physical Science: Answer the following astronomy questions. A cantaloupe terrain is found on what largest moon on Neptune? - ttddTriton
Physical Science: Answer the following astronomy questions. Toss-Up: This planet emits the Ashen Light, and the Ishtar Terra is located on this planet. Maxwell Montes is the tallest mountain on this planet that has an atmosphere dominated by carbon dioxide. The highest surface temperature of any planet in the Solar System is possessed by what second planet from the Sun? - ttddVenus
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. What partner moon of Phobos is the other of the two moons that orbits Mars? - ttddDeimos
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. What moon of Jupiter is the largest moon in the Solar System and is the only known moon to have its own magnetosphere? - ttddGanymede
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. Toss-Up: BepiColombo will visit this planet that has a two to three day to year ratio, and whose orbit is the most eccentric of all planets in the Solar System. Weird terrain is present on this planet that contains the Caloris Basin. MESSENGER and Mariner 10 visited what planet that is the closest planet to the Sun? - ttddMercury
Physical Science: Answer the following about industrial processes in chemistry. What compound reacts with oxygen in the Ostwald process to form nitric acid? - ttddAmmonia
Physical Science: Answer the following about industrial processes in chemistry. Ammonia is the product of what process that converts atmospheric nitrogen through the use of an iron catalyst? - ttddHaber-Bosch process
Physical Science: Answer the following about industrial processes in chemistry. Toss-Up: A mixture of sulfite and sulfuric acid called oleum is an intermediate in this process that is the most performed chemical synthesis in the United States. In a similar, but less efficient process to this one, Glover towers were used to create the final product. A platinum catalyst can be used in this process; however, more commonly, vanadium oxide is used. The Lead-Chamber process was a precursor to what process that combines sulfur dioxide and oxygen to produce sulfuric acid? - ttddContact process
Physical Science: Identify these scientific scales. What scale that ranges from 0 to 12 is used to measure wind speed? - ttddBeaufort Scale
Physical Science: Identify these scientific scales. What scale that ranges from 0 to 5 is used to measure tornado intensity? - ttddFujita Scale
Physical Science: Identify these scientific scales. Toss-Up: This scale makes use of the dissociation energies of elements as measured in electronvolts. This scale differs from those of Allred-Rochow and Mulliken in that it needs a starting reference point. Hydrogen has a rating of 2.2 on this scale that ranges from 0.7 for francium up to 3.9 for fluorine. Identify this scale named for an American chemist that measures electronegativity. - ttddPauling Scale
Physical Science: Identify these forces. Gluons mediate what force that holds together the atomic nucleus? - ttddStrong nuclear force
Physical Science: Identify these forces. W and Z bosons mediate what other fundamental force? - ttddWeak nuclear force
Physical Science: Identify these forces. Toss-Up: This force over a small distance is described by the Dahl Effect, and the Tomlinson model describes it on an atomic scale. Two laws by Amonton deal with this force that is directly proportional to the normal force. Coming in static and kinetic varieties, is what force that opposes motion when two surfaces touch? - ttddFriction
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. What hydrocarbons that include methane have only single bonds? - ttddAlkanes
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. What compounds have a non-terminal carbonyl group and are often contrasted with aldehydes? - ttddKetones
Physical Science: Answer these organic chemistry questions. Toss-Up: Two of these compounds are used to produce an ether in the Williamson synthesis, and Jones reagent will oxidize them to carboxylic acids. These compounds have secondary and tertiary types. Identify these compounds that have a hydroxyl group and include methanol and ethanol. - ttddAlcohols
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. What upper part of the lithosphere is the outermost layer of the Earth? - ttddCrust
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. What solid layer of the Earth is composed mostly of a nickel-iron alloy? - ttddInner core (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. Toss-Up: The creation of these objects is described by the Bergeron process, and these objects contains seeds or nuclei that they condense around. The word nimbus is used for types of these objects that are likely to bring precipitation. Coming in cirrus, stratus, and cumulus varieties are what formations in the atmosphere? - ttddClouds
Physical Science: Identify these compounds. What is the chemical formula for sodium chloride? - ttddNaCl
Physical Science: Identify these compounds. What is the chemical formula for sodium hydroxide? - ttddNaOH
Physical Science: Identify these compounds. Toss-Up: The concentration of this compound is given by the Keeling Curve, and RuBisCo acts upon this compound in the Calvin Cycle. This compound has a linear structure with one hundred eighty degree bond angles, and it is produced by combustion reactions. Dry ice is the solid form of what compound with formula CO2? - ttddCarbon dioxide (accept CO2 before mentioned)
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What scientist dropped cannonballs from the Leaning Tower of Pisa and was tried by the Catholic Church for his belief in heliocentrism? - ttddGalileo Galilei (accept either)
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. What author of On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres was the first to layout the heliocentric view of the universe? - ttddNicolaus Copernicus
Physical Science: Identify the following scientists. Toss-Up: Podolsky, Rosen, and this scientist created a paradox in an attempt to disprove quantum mechanics. This man and Szilard developed a refrigerator with no moving parts. This man studied Brownian motion and the photoelectric effect. Identify this scientist who stated that E equals m c-squared. - ttddAlbert Einstein
Physical Science: Identify these laws. What law states that planets orbiting the sun sweep out equal areas in equal time? - ttddKepler's Second Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these laws. What law relates the cube of a planet's semimajor axis to the square of the orbital period? - ttddKepler's Third Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these laws. Toss-Up: T-symmetry does not function because of this law that is the subject of Loschmidt's paradox. This law would be violated by the Maxwell's Demon thought experiment. Stating that heat cannot spontaneously flow from a cold body to a hotter body, is what law of thermodynamics stating that entropy is always increasing? - ttddSecond Law of Thermodynamics
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. The Gutenberg discontinuity is the upper boundary of what layer of the Earth that has its rotation associated with the geomagnetic field? - ttddOuter core (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. What regions are formed when an oceanic plate slides under another tectonic plate? - ttddSubduction zones
Physical Science: Answer these earth science questions. Toss-Up: Moganite and this mineral combine to form chalcedony, and this mineral is found at the bottom of Bowen's reaction series. The shocked type of this mineral was found at the K-T boundary, and it is the second most common mineral on Earth. Found in granite and sandstone, is what mineral chemically known as silicon dioxide? - ttddQuartz (prompt on "silicon dioxide" or "SiO2")
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. This man and Kirchhoff co-discovered cesium and rubidium, and he names a burner used in many chemistry labs. - ttddRobert Bunsen
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. This man names an absolute temperature scale where zero degrees Celsius is equal to two hundred seventy-three of its units. - ttddLord Kelvin
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: This man's inventions included a namesake claw for sinking ships and an improbable heat ray. This author of The Sand Reckoner invented a namesake screw for moving water and this man's namesake principle describes buoyancy. What scientist is famous for his bathtub exclamation of "Eureka!" upon discovery of that principle? - ttddArchimedes
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. What partner moon of Phobos is the other of the two moons that orbits Mars? - ttddDeimos
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. What moon of Jupiter is the largest moon in the Solar System and is the only known moon to have its own magnetosphere? - ttddGanymede
Physical Science: Answer these astronomy questions. Toss-Up: BepiColombo will visit this planet that has a two to three day to year ratio, and whose orbit is the most eccentric of all planets in the Solar System. Weird terrain is present on this planet that contains the Caloris Basin. MESSENGER and Mariner 10 visited what planet that is the closest planet to the Sun? - ttddMercury
Physical Science: Answer these questions about ions and compounds. For team questions, you will be given the name of a polyatomic ion. You will then need to give the formula, including the charge. For instance, if I said hydroxide, you would say OH minus or OH minus one. Permanganate - ttddMnO4- or MnO4-1 or MnO41-
Physical Science: Answer these questions about ions and compounds. For team questions, you will be given the name of a polyatomic ion. You will then need to give the formula, including the charge. For instance, if I said hydroxide, you would say OH minus or OH minus one. Hypochlorite - ttddClO- or ClO-1 or ClO1-
Physical Science: Answer these questions about ions and compounds. For team questions, you will be given the name of a polyatomic ion. You will then need to give the formula, including the charge. For instance, if I said hydroxide, you would say OH minus or OH minus one. Toss-Up: Sodium chloride and this compound are used by the LeBlanc and Mannheim processes, and one process produces this compound using glover towers. A vanadium oxide catalyst is used to make this compound in the contact process. Found in Venus's atmosphere and car batteries is what acid with formula H2SO4? - ttddSulfuric acid
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What scientist coined the term "black body" and formulated junction and loop rules for circuit analysis? - ttddGustav Kirchhoff
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What scientist names a wavelength and developed the wave-particle duality of light? - ttddLouis de Broglie
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: An effect named after this man involves the rotation of polarized light by a magnetic field, and a room insulated with metal foil to block electric fields is known as his namesake "cage". Diamagnetism was coined by this namesake of a law of induction. Identify this scientist who names the SI unit for capacitance. - ttddMichael Faraday
Physical Science: In chemistry, what type of energy is defined as the amount of energy required to remove an electron from a gaseous atom? - ttddIonization Energy
Physical Science: In chemistry, what type of energy is defined as the amount of energy required to initiate a chemical reaction? - ttddActivation Energy
Physical Science: Toss-Up: Using ionization energy and electron affinity for a species, the Born-Haber cycle makes use of Hess's law to indirectly calculate this quantity. A negative value for this quantity indicates that energy is released when crystals are formed. Symbolized with a capital U, what quantity is defined as the amount of energy needed to completely ionize a solid compound? - ttddLattice Energy
Physical Science: Identify some chemical elements from a description. What element has the highest melting point among all elements and is typically extracted from the ores scheelite and wolframite? - ttddTungsten
Physical Science: Identify some chemical elements from a description. Obtained primarily from the mineral cassiterite which contains its dioxide, what group 14 element gained its symbol from its Latin name stannum? - ttddTin
Physical Science: Identify some chemical elements from a description. Toss-Up: Inside large stars at extreme temperatures, this element is created when a helium nucleus fuses with a silicon nucleus. The presence of this element and its dioxide are responsible for the yellowish tint of Io. This element is typically produced when contaminants featuring this element are removed from petroleum and natural gas. What is this chemical element once known as "brimstone" that is found directly below oxygen on the periodic table? - ttddSulfur
Physical Science: Identify some things relating to volcanoes. What name is given to the large crater-like depression formed when a volcano empties its magma chamber in an explosive eruption? - ttddCaldera
Physical Science: Identify some things relating to volcanoes. What name is given to the openings sometimes known as "vents" through which volcanic gases such as steam, carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, hydrogen chloride and hydrogen sulfide escape prior to or during an eruption? - ttddFumarole
Physical Science: Identify some things relating to volcanoes. Toss-Up: A fine-grained version of this material is called pozzolan and is mixed with lime to form a plaster-like concrete. After the eruption of Mount Krakatoa, rafts of this material floated throughout the Pacific with tree trunks floating among it. Often used as an abrasive, what is this light-colored and porous igneous volcanic rock formed when magma rapidly cools with gas bubbles trapped inside? - ttddPumice OR Pumicite
Physical Science: Identify these compounds. What stimulant drug, the most consumed drug on Earth, is found in tea and coffee? - ttddCaffeine
Physical Science: Identify these compounds. What simplest aldehyde is used as a preservative for human cadavers? - ttddFormaldehyde
Physical Science: Identify these compounds. Toss-Up: This compound can be detected using the Nessler test, and it produces a silver mirror in the presence of aldehydes. This compound and oxygen are used to produce nitric acid in the Ostwald Process, and it is produced via the Haber-Bosch Process. Identify this compound with formula NH3. - ttddAmmonia
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. What is the SI unit of magnetic flux density? - ttddTeslas
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. What is the SI unit of radioactivity? - ttddBecquerels
Physical Science: Answer these questions about physical quantities. Toss-Up: This quantity is equal to the area under the curve on a phase diagram and it can be expressed in ergs. This quantity divided by time yields power, and it is equal to the energy transferred. Calculated as force times displacement is what quantity that is the amount of energy transferred by a force to an object? - ttddWork
Physical Science: Identify these laws. What law states that for every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction? - ttddNewton's Third Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these laws. What law states that the orbits of the planets are elliptical in shape? - ttddKepler's First Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these laws. Toss-Up: This law can be modified with the acentric and compressibility factors, and the Redlich-Kwong equation is derived from it. The van der Waals equation is a generalization of this law that was derived by Emile Clapeyron. Combining several different laws, is what law most commonly stated as PV equals nRT? - ttddIdeal Gas Law (prompt on partial answer)
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What scientist's best-known thought experiment involves a vial of poison, a decaying atom, and a cat? - ttddErwin Schrodinger
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What astronomer's study of the stars and planets led to Kepler being able to develop his three laws of planetary motion? - ttddTycho Brahe
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: This author of A New System of Chemical Philosophy discovered that rainfall is due in part to a change in temperature. This scientist stated that chemical elements combine in ratios of small whole numbers in his Law of Multiple Proportions. Identify this scientist who also developed his namesake Law of Partial Pressures. - ttddJohn Dalton
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the Earth. What lowest layer of the atmosphere is the site of weather and the primary location of the auroras? - ttddTroposphere
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the Earth. What largest layer of the atmosphere is named for the extremely high temperatures reached within it? - ttddThermosphere
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the Earth. Toss-Up: Kimberlite pipes are located in this region that is the subject of the Japanese project Chikyu Hakken. The D double prime layer is part of this region that is bounded by the Moho and Gutenberg discontinuities. Containing the asthenosphere and the lower lithosphere, is what layer of the Earth between the crust and the core? - ttddMantle
Physical Science: Identify these lab techniques. High-performance liquid and thin-layer are types of what lab technique that sees a mobile phase pass through a stationary phase to separate mixtures? - ttddChromatography
Physical Science: Identify these lab techniques. IR and NMR are types of what lab technique that has a mass type that separates molecules based on their charge to mass ratio? - ttddSpectroscopy
Physical Science: Identify these lab techniques. Toss-Up: The zeta potential type of this technique can be used to find the flocculation point. The checkerboard form of this process is done before ELISA. Bromothymol-blue and phenolphthalein can be used as indicators in this technique that utilizes a buret. Identify this lab technique used to determine the concentration of a solution by adding incremental amounts of another solution. - ttddTitration
Physical Science: Answer these questions about elements. What isotope of hydrogen has one neutron and an atomic mass of two? - ttddDeuterium
Physical Science: Answer these questions about elements. What isotope of hydrogen has two neutrons and an atomic mass of three? - ttddTritium
Physical Science: Answer these questions about elements. Toss-Up: This element can be produced via the CNO cycle, and it was discovered as a yellow spectral line during a solar eclipse. This element's nucleus is known as an alpha particle, and it is the lightest Noble Gas. Identify this element with atomic number two and symbol He. - ttddHelium
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. What metal has atomic symbol Ag? - ttddSilver
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. What metal has atomic symbol Ni? - ttddNickel
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. Toss-Up: Seven atoms of this element are contained in toluene, and aldehydes and ketones see this element double bonded to an oxygen atom. Cubic zirconia resembles one allotrope of this element. Fullerenes, graphite, and diamond are all allotropes of what element with four valence electrons, an atomic number of six, and symbol C? - ttddCarbon
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. What period of rare earth metals contains elements fifty-seven to seventy-one and is known for its namesake contraction? - ttddLanthanides or Lanthanoids
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Thorium and uranium are a part of what period that lies below the lanthanides on the periodic table? - ttddActinides or Actinoids
Physical Science: Answer these questions about the periodic table of elements. Toss-Up: Californium was bombarded with calcium to discover the heaviest element in this group, and Linus Pauling predicted that one of these elements would form a hexafluoride. William Ramsay discovered several elements in what group that contains elements with full valence shells such as radon and krypton? - ttddNoble Gases (accept Inert Gases or Group 18 or Group VIIIA)
Physical Science: Answer these questions concerning organic chemistry. What functional group consists of an oxygen atom bonded to a hydrogen atom? - ttddHydroxyl group
Physical Science: Answer these questions concerning organic chemistry. What functional group consists of a carbon atom bonded to an oxygen atom? - ttddCarbonyl group
Physical Science: Answer these questions concerning organic chemistry. Toss-Up: These compounds follow Markovnikov's Rules when adding them and Zaitsev's Rule when creating them. The Wittig Reaction is used to make these compounds that are denoted Z/E to denote cis and trans. Characterized by a carbon-carbon double bond, are what compounds that include ethylene? - ttddAlkenes (do NOT accept "alkanes" or "alkynes")
Physical Science: Identify these forces. What is the name of the force that acts perpendicular to the surface that the object contacts? - ttddNormal force
Physical Science: Identify these forces. What force is the opposite of a compressive force and results from a string pulling on another physical object? - ttddTension or Tensile force
Physical Science: Identify these forces. Toss-Up: The exchange of pi mesons is involved in this force that is modeled by quantum chromodynamics. This force exhibits asymptotic freedom and was first proposed by Hideki Yukawa. Color confinement is seen in what force that is carried by gluons and responsible for holding the atomic nucleus together? - ttddStrong nuclear force
Physical Science: Answer these questions about scientific laws. According to Kepler's First Law of Planetary Motion, the orbits of the planets are what shape? - ttddEllipse or Elliptical
Physical Science: Answer these questions about scientific laws. According to Kepler's Third Law of Motion, the cube of the semi-major axis of a planet's orbit is directly proportional to the square of what quantity for the planet's orbit? - ttddPeriod
Physical Science: Answer these questions about scientific laws. Toss-Up: The force constant in this law is equal to cross-sectional area over length times Young's modulus. Cauchy generalized this law to three dimensions, and it states that stress is directly proportional to strain. Identify this law that can be used to calculate the restoring force on a spring. - ttddHooke's Law
Physical Science: Answer these geology questions. What process involves one tectonic plate pushing beneath another one? - ttddSubduction
Physical Science: Answer these geology questions. Formed from rapidly cooling magma, what igneous rock makes up most of the oceanic crust? - ttddBasalt
Physical Science: Answer these geology questions. Toss-Up: Coulees are formed by domes of this substance, and it can be classified as either felsic or mafic. A ropey form of this substance is known as pahoehoe [pa-hoy-hoy], while the stony and sharp form is called a'a. Identify this molten rock that rises above the surface of the Earth, contrasting it with magma. - ttddLava
Physical Science: Identify these elements. Cinnabar contains what element that is a liquid at room temperature and was formerly used in thermometers? - ttddMercury
Physical Science: Identify these elements. What halogen is also a liquid at room temperature and is reddish brown in color? - ttddBromine
Physical Science: Identify these elements. Toss-Up: Compounds of this element and titanium form the Ziegler-Natta catalyst. This element that is involved in the Bayer process is produced via the Hall-Heroult process. This element's oxide is extracted from bauxite. Found in soda cans, identify this element with atomic number thirteen and symbol Al. - ttddAluminum
Physical Science: Answer the following about elements, molecules, and compounds. What forms of an element have different numbers of neutrons? - ttddIsotopes
Physical Science: Answer the following about elements, molecules, and compounds. What compounds have the same chemical formulas but a different arrangement of atoms? - ttddIsomers
Physical Science: Answer the following about elements, molecules, and compounds. Toss-Up: The Nessler test is used to detect this compound that sodium is dissolved in during the Birch reduction. The Haber-Bosch process is used to produce this compound that is converted to urea for excretion in humans. Identify this compound with chemical formula NH3. - ttddAmmonia
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planetary moons. The only moon in the Solar System known to have a dense atmosphere is what largest moon of the planet Saturn? - ttddTitan
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planetary moons. What moon that is approximately 8% bigger than the planet Mercury is the largest moon of Jupiter and the largest in the Solar System? - ttddGanymede
Physical Science: Answer these questions about planetary moons. Toss-Up: William Lassell first discovered this moon in 1846 and it is the only large moon in the Solar System with a retrograde orbit. This moon contains geysers that spew out nitrogen gas, leading to this moon having a very thin nitrogen atmosphere. It contains a rugged landscape known as "cantaloupe terrain" and in 1989, Voyager 2 became the only spacecraft to ever visit and map this moon. What is this largest moon of Neptune? - ttddTriton
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. What toxic metal that is used to shield against radiation has atomic symbol Pb? - ttddLead
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. Many solders (sod-ders) consist of lead and what other element with atomic symbol Sn? - ttddTin
Physical Science: Identify the following elements. Toss-Up: This element is found in products of the Gabriel synthesis and it is detected via the Kjeldahl method. One of this element's oxides is laughing gas, and it is found in amines, amides, and azides. The most abundant element in the Earth's atmosphere is what element with atomic number seven and symbol N? - ttddNitrogen
Physical Science: Answer these questions about natural phenomena. What dark, funnel-shaped clouds prominently strike in a namesake "Alley" throughout the central United States? - ttddTornadoes
Physical Science: Answer these questions about natural phenomena. Sandy and Katrina were examples of what massive storms that evolve from tropical storms? - ttddHurricanes
Physical Science: Answer these questions about natural phenomena. Toss-Up: Valleys with sharp rock ridges known as aretes can be formed by these objects, and their absence can cause isostatic rebound. The movement of these objects is governed by the Glenn-Nye law. Kettle lakes and moraines are left behind by what large moving masses of ice? - ttddGlaciers
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. What quantity is represented with the letter c and is equal to approximately three times ten to the eighth meters per second? - ttddSpeed of light
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. The mach number is related to what quantity that is equal to approximately three hundred forty-three meters per second in air? - ttddSpeed of sound
Physical Science: Identify the following physical quantities. Toss-Up: The time derivative of this quantity with respect to position yields force. One-half times the displacement squared times the spring constant gives this quantity for a spring. Equal to mass times the acceleration due to gravity times height, is what type of energy that is stored in a system as a result of its position or configuration? - ttddPotential energy [prompt on "Energy"]
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What Polish scientist developed the heliocentric view of the universe? - ttddNicolaus Copernicus
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. What British scientist used a torsion balance to find the universal gravitational constant? - ttddHenry Cavendish
Physical Science: Identify these scientists. Toss-Up: This scientist names rings for interference patterns that are created by air between a lens and a glass. This man names a law of cooling, and he wrote Optics about color and light. The SI unit of force is named for what scientist who formulated his three laws of motion? - ttddIsaac Newton
Physical Science: Answer these questions about geology related to the state of Maine. Maine's Mount Desert Island is so named because of its barren, rocky mountaintops which are primarily composed of this igneous rock. This rock, which comes in gray, white, and pink forms, is primarily composed of feldspar and quartz. - ttddGranite
Physical Science: Answer these questions about geology related to the state of Maine. Passamaquoddy Bay, in eastern Maine, experiences unusually strong instances of this phenomenon. This phenomenon can have "spring" and "neap" varieties. - ttddTides
Physical Science: Answer these questions about geology related to the state of Maine. So-called "erratic" boulders, a common sight in Maine, are usually transported by these things. These things cause the formation of large, narrow ridges of sandier soil known as eskers, which are caused by the deposition of sediment from water flowing under these things. Fjords like Maine's Somes Sound are narrow, steep-sided bays formed by erosion from these things. These things leave terminal moraines when they retreat, and they covered Maine, along with the rest of the northern United States, during the last Ice Age. Identify these large, flowing structures composed of ice. - ttddGlaciers [accept Ice sheets, but do not accept or prompt on "ice caps" because those do not move]
Physical Science: Answer these questions about systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. One well-known chaotic system is the Lorentz attractor, whose graph is often said to look like the wings of this animal. Chaos theory is often explained using an "effect" named for this animal. - ttddButterfly
Physical Science: Answer these questions about systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. Particles whose motion is defined in terms of their jerk can exhibit chaotic behavior through sensitivity to initial conditions. Jerk is the third derivative of position, making it the rate of change of this quantity, which is zero if the net force on an object is zero. - ttddAcceleration
Physical Science: Answer these questions about systems that exhibit chaotic behavior. Attaching one of these objects to the end of another one of them forms a system which behaves chaotically. The development of an accurate clock for ships was hindered by the fact that clocks based on these objects do not work on rolling ships. The "compound" type of these objects has its mass evenly distributed over its length. One of these objects named for Foucault [foo-coh] was used to demonstrate the Earth's rotation. The behavior of these objects can be described using the small angle approximation. These objects' period does not depend on their amplitude. Identify these objects, which consist of a suspended weight which swings freely. - ttddPendulums
Physical Science: Answer the following about fluorine. Fluorine is an extremely reactive element, in part because it has the highest value of this quantity often measured on the Pauling scale. - ttddElectronegativity
Physical Science: Answer the following about fluorine. Because of its high electronegativity, fluorine is commonly used in experiments which attempt to produce compounds including this group of elements, such as a compound with six fluorines and the heaviest one of these elements. - ttddNoble gases [accept Group 18]
Physical Science: Answer the following about fluorine. A compound of this element and fluorine is often produced by reacting this element with chlorine trifluoride. That compound is forced through membranes in a process known as gaseous diffusion, which along with gas centrifugation is one of the most commonly used methods of enriching this element. When this element contains a lower than normal concentration of its 235 isotope, it is known as "depleted." Name this element which is processed from yellowcake and, with plutonium, is used in fissile nuclear weapons. - ttddUranium
Physical Science: Answer the following about chemical laws. Boyle's law states that there is an inverse relationship between pressure and this other property of a gas when kept at constant temperature. - ttddVolume
Physical Science: Answer the following about chemical laws. Le Chatelier's principle, also known as the "law" of this type of chemical system, states that a system in this state will adjust itself in response to outside stimuli. - ttddEquilibrium
Physical Science: Answer the following about chemical laws. One correction to this statement is expressed as an infinite series of powers of the molar density and is known as the virial expansion. Another equation which attempts to correct this equation includes terms for the size of molecules and intermolecular attractions and is named for Van der Waals. This statement incorporates Boyle's Law, Charles's Law, and - ttddAvogadro's Law, and a constant in this statement is the product of Boltzmann's constant and Avogadro's constant and is expressed as R. Name this chemical law which states that the product of pressure and volume is equal to a constant times the product of temperature and the number of moles.
Physical Science: Give the following about optics. This law is typically written as n-sub-one sine theta-sub-one equals n-sub-two sine theta-sub-two. It is used to calculate the angles of incidence and refraction. - ttddSnell's Law [or Descartes's Law; prompt on "Law of Refraction"]
Physical Science: Give the following about optics. This quantity is defined as the distance between a lens and the point of convergence. The inverse of this quantity, which is measured in diopters, is optical power. - ttddFocal length [prompt on partial answer]
Physical Science: Give the following about optics. Toss-Up: The results of this process can be modeled using a Cornu Spiral. The far-field and near-field forms of this process are described by the Fraunhofer and Fresnel equations. This process is quantified by an equation written as "two d sine theta equals n lambda." That equation is Bragg's Law. This phenomenon produced namesake "patterns" after light passed through a double slit in Young's double-slit experiment. For ten points, name this process in which waves bend around an obstacle. - ttddDiffraction [accept specific types]