Name some Homerian characters The opening lines of The Iliad speak of the rage of this character⸴ who refuses to fight for the Greeks after the kidnapped Briseis is taken from him - ttddAchilles
Name some Homerian characters This character⸴ the commander-in-chief for the Greek forces⸴ demanded Briseis be brought to him to replace his own kidnapped war prize Chryseis. - ttddAgamemnon
Name some Homerian characters This character tests another character by asking the maid Eurycleia to move a bed that turns out to be carved from a still-rooted tree. The weaving and unraveling of a burial shroud for the elderly Laertes is discovered by Melantho to be one of the tricks this character uses to postpone remarriage⸴ another of which is the challenge of stringing her husband's bow and shooting an arrow through twelve axe heads. This character shuns the advances of Antinous and one hundred seven other suitors during the twenty year absence of her husband. Name this mother of Telemachus and wife of the king of Ithaca⸴ Odysseus. - ttddPenelope
Name these African authors. This author wrote about Pieter being arrested for sleeping with Stephanie⸴ a Black woman⸴ in Too Late the Phalarope. This author also wrote about Absalom's murder of Arthur Jarvis in Cry⸴ the Beloved Country. - ttddAlan Paton
Name these African authors. This author wrote about the Smales family escaping Johannesburg in July's People and about Rosa being arrested during the Soweto uprisings in Burger's Daughter. - ttddNadine Gordimer
Name these African authors. In one novel by this author⸴ a violent attack involving Pollux leaves the protagonist's daughter Lucy pregnant and forced to seek help from her neighbor Petrus. In that novel⸴ the protagonist takes solace in working at a local animal shelter after an assault on and affair with his student Melanie. In addition to that novel about David Lurie⸴ this author wrote about Anna being carried in a cart by her son⸴ the title hare-lipped gardener. What author wrote Disgrace and The Life and Times of Michael K? - ttddJ.M. Coetzee
Name some families and surnames written about in French literature. Cosette is saved from the Thenardiers and adopted by Jean⸴ a character with this last name. That character with this last name is the protagonist of Victor Hugo's Les Miserables. - ttddJean Valjean
Name some families and surnames written about in French literature. This family includes the doctor Charles and his wife Emma⸴ who pursues affairs with Leon and Rodolphe. This family was created by Gustave Flaubert. - ttddBovary
Name some families and surnames written about in French literature. One member of this family was sent to live in a retirement home three years prior to the events of the novel in which this family appears. That member of this family was engaged to Thomas Perez. Another character with this last name is invited to a beach house with his girlfriend Marie by Raymond Sintes. While walking along the beach with Raymond⸴ one character of this name shoots an Arab man for seemingly no reason. The funeral procession of one member of this family and the apparent indifference of the other begins the novel in which this family appears. What is the last name of the protagonist of Albert Camus's The Stranger? - ttddMeursault
Name these Latin American authors. This author wrote a fictionalization of the end of Ambrose Bierce's life in The Old Gringo and about a corrupt veteran of the Mexican Revolution in The Death of Artemio Cruz. - ttddCarlos Fuentes
Name these Latin American authors. This author⸴ the ˈˈnieceˈˈ of a Marxist president⸴ chronicled the lives of the Trueba family members⸴ from the violent Esteban to his granddaughter Alba in The House of the Spirits. - ttddIsabel Allende
Name these Latin American authors. In one story by this author⸴ Father Gonzaga preaches against ingenuousness before a carnival featuring a spider woman comes to town and takes attention off of the title being⸴ who had flown into Elisenda and Pelayo's home. In addition to ˈˈA Very Old Man with Enormous Wings⸴ˈˈ this author wrote a novel in which a five year rain begins after a fictionalized version of the Banana Massacre. In that novel by this author⸴ Amaranta Ursula gives birth to a baby with a pig's tail who is devoured by ants⸴ leaving Aureliano to watch Macondo be destroyed by a twister. What Colombian author wrote the magical realist novel One Hundred Years of Solitude? - ttddGabriel Garcia Marquez [prompt on partial answer]
Name these Italian authors who wrote during the fourteenth century. Beatrice guides this author through heaven in Paradiso⸴ the third work in this author's Divine Comedy. - ttddDante degli Alighieri [accept either]
Name these Italian authors who wrote during the fourteenth century. ˈˈYou who hear the sound in scattered rhymesˈˈ begins this author's Il Canzoniere⸴ a collection of poems⸴ mostly sonnets⸴ for this author's love interest Laura. - ttddPetrarch or Francesco Petrarca
Name these Italian authors who wrote during the fourteenth century. This author wrote one hundred six biographies about people like Sappho⸴ Cleopatra⸴ and Helen of Troy in On Famous Women. The heart of Ghismonda's lover is cut out⸴ placed in a goblet⸴ and sent to her by her father⸴ a story that exemplifies unhappy love according to Filostrato⸴ a character created by this author. The Marquis de Saluzzo manipulates Griselda into believing her children are dead to test her faithfulness in a story told by Dioneo⸴ a character escaping the Black Plague in Florence in this author's most famous work. One hundred stories are told by ten characters in what author's Decameron? - ttddGiovanni Boccaccio
Identify these British poets who wrote elegies. This man's poem ˈˈIn Memoriam⸴ˈˈ an elegy for his friend Arthur Henry Hallam⸴ contains the line ˈˈtis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.ˈˈ - ttddAlfred⸴ Lord Tennyson
Identify these British poets who wrote elegies. This poet wrote an elegy for John Keats instructing the reader to ˈˈweepˈˈ for the title figure⸴ ˈˈAdonais.ˈˈ - ttddPercy Bysshe Shelley
Identify these British poets who wrote elegies. This poet described ˈˈthat sweet city with her dreaming spiresˈˈ in an elegy written for his friend Arthur Hugh Clough. In a companion piece to that poem⸴ ˈˈThyrsis⸴ˈˈ this poet wrote ˈˈGo⸴ for they call to you⸴ shepherd from the hills.ˈˈ The narrator of that poem describes the title figure as roaming the world with a ˈˈwild brotherhoodˈˈ after leaving Oxford. In this man's most famous poem⸴ he describes the ˈˈturbid ebb and flow of human miseryˈˈ and the ˈˈeternal note of sadnessˈˈ that Sophocles heard long ago on the Aegean. Name this poet of ˈˈThe Scholar Gypsyˈˈ and ˈˈDover Beach.ˈˈ - ttddMatthew Arnold
Name these Shakespearean heroines. This fairy queen from A Midsummer Night's Dream falls in love with the donkey-headed Bottom under the influence of a love potion. - ttddTitania
Name these Shakespearean heroines. Hamlet suspects this mother of his to be complicit in the murder of his father when she re-marries King Claudius. This character is the queen of Denmark. - ttddGertrude
Name these Shakespearean heroines. This woman's husband testifies in front of her cousin Lodovico that he wooed her with his stories and not by witchcraft⸴ after which this woman's father Brabantio tells her husband that she will eventually betray him. Emilia steals a strawberry-patterned handkerchief belonging to this woman⸴ which is placed in Cassio's room to frame this woman for infidelity. This woman's husband kills himself after it is revealed that Iago has framed her⸴ though he had already strangled her to death. Identify this wife of the moor Othello. - ttddDesdemona
Name some Japanese authors. This author wrote about the last game of Master Shusai in The Master of Go and about a tea ceremony hosted by Chikako and attended by her late lover's son Kikuji in Thousand Cranes. - ttddYasunari Kawabata
Name some Japanese authors. This author wrote a namesake diary that featured descriptions of other ladies-in-waiting⸴ including Sei Shonagon⸴ as well as a novel about the title philandering character's relationships with Lady Fujitsubo⸴ Lady Aoi⸴ and the Third Princess. - ttddLady Shikibu Murasaki
Name some Japanese authors. This author wrote about an old man using a young man to carry out revenge upon the female sex by conducting affairs with as many women as possible in the novel Forbidden Colors. The three moles on the chest of a boy bathing under a waterfall indicate the reincarnation of Kiyo to Kiyo's friend Honda in Runaway Horses⸴ the second of this author's Sea of Fertility Tetralogy. In another novel by this author⸴ the protagonist's role in the miscarriage of a prostitute pregnant by a U.S. soldier is the partial cause of Father Dosen's threats to expel him from the title location. Mizoguchi burns down the beautiful title structure in what author's Temple of the Golden Pavilion? - ttddYukio Mishima
Name these authors of short stories. This Japanese author wrote about a criminal who is unable to escape Hell via the title conveyance in ˈˈThe Spider's Thread⸴ˈˈ about different accounts of a murder in ˈˈIn a Grove⸴ˈˈ and about a thief at the gates of Kyoto in ˈˈRashomon.ˈˈ - ttddRyunosuke Akutagawa
Name these authors of short stories. This English author wrote about the sociopathic child Conradin's killer ferret in ˈˈSredni Vashtarˈˈ and about the teenaged Vera fabricating a ghost story to scare Framton Nuttel in ˈˈThe Open Window.ˈˈ - ttddSaki [or H. H. Munro]
Name these authors of short stories. In one story by this author⸴ Michael attempts to close a footpath running through a schoolground but runs into opposition from villagers that believe that spirits use the path. In another story by this author⸴ Jonathan is robbed by men who believe he has kept the money from his bar and bicycle taxi service. In addition to the stories ˈˈDead Man's Pathˈˈ and ˈˈCivil Peace⸴ˈˈ this author wrote a novel in which Clara's abortion is funded by Obi⸴ who is later caught taking bribes during his tenure with the Nigerian Civil Service. That novel⸴ No Longer at Ease⸴ is a sequel to this author's most famous work. What Igbo author wrote about Obi's grandfather Okonkwo in Things Fall Apart? - ttddChinua Achebe
Name these Shakespearean comedies. In this play⸴ the constable Dogberry overhears and reveals the scheming of Don John and Borachio to keep the couple Hero and Claudio apart. Beatrice and Benedick also confess their love for each other in this play. - ttddMuch Ado about Nothing
Name these Shakespearean comedies. In this play⸴ named for the Feast of Epiphany⸴ Viola disguises herself as a man with whom Olivia falls in love. Olivia eventually ends up marrying Viola's twin brother Sebastian. - ttddTwelfth Night
Name these Shakespearean comedies. One disguise in this play involves the clothing of an old fortuneteller⸴ the widow of Brainford⸴ though the man the disguise was meant to trick still beats the fortuneteller. This play opens with its central character admitting to robbing Justice Shallow and Parson Evans. The title characters of this play trick that character into climbing into a basket of laundry and being dumped into the Thames River because they do not appreciate his love letters to them. In another trick played on that character⸴ Fenton carries off Anne Page disguised as a fairy and marries her. Mistress Ford and Mistress Page are the title characters of what play that also features the amorous Falstaff? - ttddThe Merry Wives of Windsor
Name these European authors. This author wrote about Golyadkin repeatedly seeing his doppelganger in The Double and about Rogozhin's murder of Nastassya driving Prince Myshkin crazy in The Idiot. - ttddFyodor Dostoevsky
Name these European authors. This author wrote about Antoine Roquentin⸴ a resident of Bouville⸴ experiencing the title sick feeling in Nausea and about Hugo wanting to kill Hoederer to impress Louis and Olga in Dirty Hands. - ttddJean-Paul Sartre
Name these European authors. This author wrote about a middle-aged man winning money from gambling in Monte Carlo⸴ which he uses to travel Europe after his wife and mother-in-law incorrectly identify him as dead. In addition to The Late Mattia Pascal⸴ this author wrote about a producer recreating a scenario from the brothel owned by Madame Pace. At the end of that play by this author⸴ some actors debate whether or not the Little Girl drowned in a fountain and the Boy shot himself with a revolver. The Mother⸴ Father⸴ and Stepdaughter appear in Six Characters in Search of an Author⸴ a play by what Italian author? - ttddLuigi Pirandello
Give these colorful titles. In this Lucy Maud Montgomery novel⸴ a red-headed orphan is sent to live on the title Nova Scotia farm with Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert and becomes ˈˈbosom friendsˈˈ with Diana Barry. - ttddAnne of Green Gables
Give these colorful titles. This detective novel featured the premiere of Sherlock Holmes and John Watson and got its name from a speech in which Holmes declares that there is a thread of the title color ˈˈrunning through the colourless skein of life.ˈˈ - ttddA Study in Scarlet
Give these colorful titles. At the end of this novel⸴ one character buries the protagonist's head and later decorates the burial spot with Italian marble. That character had earlier fallen in love with the protagonist when they discovered each other both stealing Voltaire volumes to read in secret. Fouqué attempts to convince the protagonist to join his lumber business⸴ but he chooses to remain with the position Abbe Pirard chose for him. After an incriminating character witness about the protagonist is given by his former lover⸴ the Marquis de La Mole forbids the protagonist from marrying his pregnant daughter Mathilde⸴ causing him to fire two shots at Madame de Renal in a church. Julien Sorel is sentenced to death in what colorfully named Stendhal novel? - ttddThe Red and the Black
Give the country of origin of these literary works. One author from this country⸴ Alice Munro⸴ wrote the award winning collection Dance of the Happy Shades. Another author from this country wrote about Glenn creating a new race of polyamorous humans in Oryx and Crake. - ttddCanada
Give the country of origin of these literary works. A fifth century author from this country⸴ Kalidasa⸴ wrote about a lost ring turning up in a fish's belly in Shakuntala. Another author from this country wrote about Rupa Mehra's search for the title marriage prospect for her daughter in A Suitable Boy. - ttddIndia
Give the country of origin of these literary works. One author from this country wrote about the choice to renounce Christianity by stepping on a fumie faced by the priest Sebastian Rodrigues. Another author from this country wrote a novel in which Mrs. Nose travels to the title character's house to find a husband for her daughter. In addition to those authors of Silence and I Am a Cat⸴ another author from this country wrote about Johnnie Walker⸴ the title character's father⸴ collecting the souls of cats to build a flute. That novel is Kafka on the Shore. Natsume Soseki⸴ Shusaku Endo⸴ and Haruki Murakami are from what Asian country? - ttddJapan
Identify some objects in Latin American literature. Santiago Zavala and Ambrosio Pardo have a conversation in a bar named for this type of place in a Mario Vargas Llosa work. Alejo Carpentier wrote a novel entitled Explosion in a [this place]. - ttddCathedrals [accept Conversation in the Cathedral or Explosion in a Cathedral]
Identify some objects in Latin American literature. Toto and Joel accidentally kill their elementary school classes in Gabriel Garcia Marquez's story ˈˈLight is Like [this substance]ˈˈ. Laura Esquivel wrote about Tita's magical cooking in a novel titled Like [this substance] for Chocolate. - ttddWater [accept ˈˈLight is Like Waterˈˈ or Like Water for Chocolate]
Identify some objects in Latin American literature. In a story named for this object⸴ the mathematician Unwin solves the ancient murder of the title man. That story is ˈˈIbn Hakkan al-Bokhari⸴ Dead in His [this object].ˈˈ In another story⸴ a Babylonian king invites an Arab king to see one of these objects to humiliate him⸴ after which the Arab king leaves the Babylonian king to die in the desert. In another story⸴ one of these objects is supposedly constructed for thirteen years by a governor of Yunnan⸴ Tsui Pen⸴ though Dr. Albert discovers that this type of object is actually a nonsensical book⸴ not an actual place. In addition to those Borges stories⸴ another author included the essays ˈˈDay of the Deadˈˈ and ˈˈMexican Masksˈˈ in a work named for this object. What object ˈˈof Solitudeˈˈ was written about by Octavio Paz? - ttddLabyrinths [accept ˈˈThe Two Kings and the Two Labyrinthsˈˈ or The Labyrinth of Solitude; do NOT prompt or accept ˈˈmazeˈˈ]
Name these works of World War I literature. Tjaden is the only member of the 2nd Company to feature prominently in this sequel to a more famous work. This work details the experiences of young men in Germany trying to reintegrate into society⸴ and the prologue sees the deaths of Kat⸴ Muller⸴ and Brandt mourned. - ttddThe Road Back
Name these works of World War I literature. Inspired by the Battle of Ypres⸴ this John McCrae poem notes that ˈˈWe are the dead . . . now we lie inˈˈ the title location where ˈˈpoppies grow.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈIn Flanders Fieldsˈˈ
Name these works of World War I literature. This poem claims that ˈˈThe pallor of girls' brows shall be the pall ofˈˈ the title group⸴ who have ˈˈbugles calling to them from sad shires.ˈˈ This poem asks ˈˈWhat candles may be held to speed them allˈˈ and describes the ˈˈshrill⸴ demented choirs of wailing shells.ˈˈ This poem was published three years before the posthumous publishing of its author's other poem ˈˈDulce Et Decorum Est.ˈˈ What sonnet beginning ˈˈWhat passing bells for these who die as cattle?ˈˈ was written by Wilfred Owen? - ttddˈˈAnthem for Doomed Youthˈˈ
Name these Caribbean authors. This Antiguan born author wrote about a title character who immigrates from the Caribbean to America in Lucy. This author changed her first name to another Caribbean island to better reflect her heritage. - ttddJamaica Kincaid
Name these Caribbean authors. This author born in the Dominican Republic wrote about the extremely obese⸴ comic-book obsessed title character in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. - ttddJunot Diaz
Name these Caribbean authors. In one poem⸴ this author wrote that ˈˈa schooner beating up the Caribbean . . . could be Odysseus⸴ home bound on the Aegean.ˈˈ That work concludes ˈˈThe classics can console. But not enough.ˈˈ is ˈˈSea Grapes.ˈˈ This author wrote an epic poem in which Admiral Rodney's role in colonizing a certain island explains the lineage of Major Plunkett and of the fisherman Achille. In that work⸴ the blind sailor Seven Seas represents a blind bard of the past. What Saint Lucian author wrote a retelling of Homer's Iliad in the epic poem Omeros? - ttddDerek Walcott
Identify these literary movements and groups. This literary movement in France was led by Stephen Mallarme⸴ Paul Verlaine⸴ and Charles Baudelaire⸴ whose Flowers of Evil exemplified the use of analogy to represent ˈˈprimordial ideas.ˈˈ - ttddSymbolism or Symbolists
Identify these literary movements and groups. These three words name a group of British authors including Alan Sillitoe⸴ author of ˈˈThe Loneliness of the Long Distance Runnerˈˈ and John Osborne⸴ whose play Look Back in Anger originated the name of the group. - ttddAngry Young Men
Identify these literary movements and groups. One poem by a member of this movement asks the reader to ˈˈbind me with your vast arms to the luminous clay...bind me bitter brotherhood.ˈˈ The author of that poem collected in Notebook of a Return to the Native Land also wrote the plays The Tragedy of King Christophe and A Tempest in response to Shakespeare. This movement was deemed an ˈˈawakening to consciousnessˈˈ and ˈˈrevolutionaryˈˈ in the essay ˈˈBlack Orpheusˈˈ by Jean-Paul Sartre. Wole Soyinka criticized this movement⸴ proclaiming that ˈˈa tiger does not declare its tigerness.ˈˈ Name this anti-colonial movement of the French-speaking Leon Damas⸴ Aimee Cesaire⸴ and Leopold Senghor. - ttddNegritude
Answer these questions about castles in European literature. The surveyor K continues to search for K after receiving a note to meet him in the title location in this man's novella The Castle. - ttddFranz Kafka
Answer these questions about castles in European literature. The Castle of Otranto is an early example of a novel in this genre⸴ as is Matthew Lewis' The Monk. - ttddGothic literature
Answer these questions about castles in European literature. A deleted chapter in the original manuscript of a novel describes the destruction of this location as ˈˈone fierce volcano burst had satisfied the need of nature.ˈˈ At this location⸴ one character is warned that ˈˈ[it] has many memories⸴ and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely.ˈˈ That character arrived here via the Borgo Pass in order to help a man who goes by ˈˈDe Ville.ˈˈ One man escapes the advances of the three sisters while staying at this location⸴ after being provided with crucifixes before arriving. Identify this location in Transylvania⸴ the residence of the title vampire in a Bram Stoker novel. - ttddCastle Dracula [accept anything involving the words Castle and Dracula; prompt on partial answer] American Government/Economics: Answer the following related to the Electoral College.
Identify these African nations given some famous authors and their works. An author from this nation⸴ J.M. Coetzee⸴ fictionalized the life of Daniel Defoe in his novel Foe. Other authors from this nation include Nadine Gordimer and the author of Cry⸴ the Beloved Country⸴ Alan Paton. - ttddRepublic of South Africa
Identify these African nations given some famous authors and their works. This country is home to the novelist Ngugi wa Thiong'o⸴ who wrote about the struggle between Njoroge's oppressed family and the white governor Mr. Howlands in Weep Not⸴ Child⸴ set during the Mau Mau Uprising. - ttddRepublic of Kenya
Identify these African nations given some famous authors and their works. One writer from this nation discusses the rise of nationalism here in his essay ˈˈThe Future of Culture in [this nation]ˈˈ; that writer may be better known for his autobiography The Days. Another writer from this country detailed the lives of Mr. Kirsha and other residents of the title street in his novel Midaq Alley. This country⸴ home to Taha Hussein⸴ is the setting of a novel in which a man who is caught dancing by his sons forbids his wife Amina from leaving the house. That novel centering on al-Sayyid is named for this country's capital. Identify this home of Naguib Mahfouz⸴ the author of the Cairo Trilogy. - ttddArab Republic of Egypt
Identify these authors who discussed pets in their work. Virginia Woolf wrote a fictional biography of this poet's dog in her work Flush. This poet addressed a poem to a lover whom she instructed to ˈˈCall me by my pet name?ˈˈ in her collection Sonnets from the Portuguese. - ttddElizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on ˈˈBrowningˈˈ]
Identify these authors who discussed pets in their work. The title ˈˈfavourite catˈˈ is addressed as a ˈˈhapless nymphˈˈ who drowns ˈˈin a tub of goldfishesˈˈ in one of this man's poems. He addressed Cromwell ˈˈguiltless of his countryˈs bloodˈˈ and numerous others in his poem ˈˈElegy Written in a Country Churchyard.ˈˈ - ttddThomas Grey
Identify these authors who discussed pets in their work. The speaker of a poem by this man addresses his lover's bird and wishes ˈˈIf only I were able to play with you yourself⸴ and/to lighten the sad cares of your mind.ˈˈ He later wrote a eulogy for that bird which condemns ˈˈbad darkness of Orcusˈˈ for taking away. In another of this poet's works⸴ the speaker presents his brother ˈˈwith the last tribute of deathˈˈ and bids him ˈˈHail and Farewellˈˈ at its conclusion. This poet asked his lover to ˈˈGive me a thousand kissesˈˈ in poem he addressed to Lesbia. Identify this Roman poet of one hundred sixteen poems. - ttddGaius Valerius Catullus American Government/Economics: Name these Supreme Court cases.
Answer these questions about literature related to a certain European nation. A writer from this nation criticized Stalinism in his essay The Captive Mind. That author⸴ Czeslaw Milosz [chess-lahv mee-loash]⸴ is from this country⸴ as is Henryk Sienkiewicz [hen-rick seen-kee-vitch]. - ttddRepublic of Poland
Answer these questions about literature related to a certain European nation. Sienkiewicz wrote Quo Vadis⸴ set during the reign of this emperor. This emperor had authors like Seneca and Petronius killed during his reign. - ttddNero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
Answer these questions about literature related to a certain European nation. In a play from this country that is set in Poland⸴ the protagonist is locked up by his father because of a prophecy⸴ then released before being sedated only to find out Rosaura is a woman. In another play from this country⸴ the title woman has Dolores pray for her so she can have a child⸴ only for her to kill her husband after realizing he never wanted a child. That author included that play⸴ Yerma⸴ in his Rural Trilogy⸴ and wrote a poem set ˈˈAt five in the afternoonˈˈ lamenting the death of the title figure. Pedro Calderon de la Barca and Federico Garcia Lorca are playwrights from what European nation? - ttddKingdom of Spain American Government/Economics: Name these political parties.
Answer the following about a European playwright. This playwright wrote about Arnolphe grooming the young Agnes to be his wife in The School for Wives and about Angelique scheming to marry Cleante in another play. - ttddMoliere
Answer the following about a European playwright. Moliere died after collapsing onstage while performing as Argan⸴ the title hypochondriac⸴ in this previously mentioned play of his. - ttddThe Imaginary Invalid
Answer the following about a European playwright. In this Moliere play⸴ the protagonist expresses concern for the title character after being informed that he has eaten two whole birds and drank some wine. Damis overhears that title character proposition his stepmother Elmire for an affair⸴ and later⸴ the protagonist is made to hide under a table to hear a similar conversation. At the end of this play⸴ the protagonist allows his daughter Mariane to marry Valere after the title man is arrested under orders from Louis XIV. In what play does the title criminal convince Orgon that he is pious? - ttddTartuffe
Answer these questions about Chinese literature. Mo Yan wrote a novel about the Shandong family producing sorghum of this color. This color also describes the cliffs at which Cao Cao is defeated in the novel Romance of the Three Kingdoms. - ttddRed
Answer these questions about Chinese literature. Du Fu and Li Bai were poets during this dynasty. Du Fu's ˈˈA Song of Chariotsˈˈ describes one rebellion during this dynasty. Bai Juyi wrote a poem about Yang Guifei⸴ the concubine of this dynasty's Emperor Xuanzong. - ttddTang dynasty
Answer these questions about Chinese literature. Wu Jingzi's novel The Scholars parodies this novel by having its main characters fall from the sky as stars. Ximen Qing marries Pan Jinlian in a spinoff of this novel entitled The Plum in the Golden Vase. Gao Yanei tries to rape Lion Chong's wife in this novel⸴ which sees the ˈˈOriginal Sevenˈˈ be robbed of their birthday gifts. Yan Poxi is a prostitute who tries to blackmail Song Jiang who eventually calls the thirty-six Heavenly Spirits and seventy-two Earthly Spirits in this novel. Identify this novel about the title bandits⸴ set during the Song Dynasty. - ttddWater Margin [accept Outlaws of the Marsh or Tale of the Marshes or Men of the Marshes]
Identify some inspirations for Shakespeare's plays. The Two Noble Kinsmen⸴ a collaboration between Shakespeare and John Fletcher⸴ takes its plot from this Canterbury tale in which Arcite and Palamon fight over Emily while imprisoned in the court of Theseus. - ttddˈˈThe Knight's Taleˈˈ
Identify some inspirations for Shakespeare's plays. Anti-Semitic themes in The Merchant of Venice may have drawn from this Christopher Marlowe play about Barabus⸴ a citizen of the title city⸴ who regularly dupes people with his slave Ithamore before becoming governor of it. - ttddThe Jew of Malta
Identify some inspirations for Shakespeare's plays. Jonathan Bate wrote a book examining the influence of this man's book The Heroides on Shakespeare's writing. Lavinia's rapists cutting out her tongue in Titus Andronicus may have been inspired by this man's version of the Procne and Philomela story in his most famous work. That work by this poet ends with Julius Caesar ascending to heaven⸴ and includes other stories found in Shakespeare's writing including Pyramus and Thisbe. This author wrote a guide to seducing women entitled Ars Amatoria. Identify this ancient Roman poet of Metamorphoses. - ttddPublius Ovidius Naso American Government/Economics: Name these nineteenth century pieces of legislation.
Name these poetry collections. This collection contains a poem describing God being as ˈˈmeek and mildˈˈ as the title animal ˈˈThe Lamb.ˈˈ That poem is a companion piece to ˈˈThe Tyger⸴ˈˈ which is found in a similarly-titled collection by the same poet. - ttddSongs of Innocence [accept Songs of Innocence and Experience]
Name these poetry collections. This collection⸴ beginning ˈˈWho if I cried out would hear me among the angelic orders⸴ˈˈ was named after an Italian castle its author⸴ Ranier Rilke⸴ was a guest at. - ttddDuino Elegies
Name these poetry collections. In one poem in this collection⸴ the speaker's lover's ˈˈparallel body yields to my arms like a fish infinitely fastened to my soul.ˈˈ In another poem in this collection⸴ the speaker muses about the ˈˈskin⸴ˈˈ ˈˈmoss⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈeager and firm milkˈˈ of the title figure with ˈˈwhite hills⸴ white thighs.ˈˈ In addition to ˈˈDrunk with Pinesˈˈ and ˈˈBody of a Woman⸴ˈˈ in another poem in this collection⸴ ˈˈThe night is starry and the stars are blue and shiver in the distanceˈˈ exemplifies the ˈˈsaddest linesˈˈ that the speaker can ˈˈwrite tonight.ˈˈ Name this collection of romantic poems by Pablo Neruda. - ttddTwenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair [prompt on ˈˈTwenty Love Poemsˈˈ]
Answer these questions about Alexander the Great in Shakespeare's plays. Before Claudius and Laertes discuss burying Ophelia⸴ Horatio and the protagonist of this play discuss how Alexander the Great's ashes could have been used to plug a barrel of beer. - ttddThe Tragedy of Hamlet⸴ Prince of Denmark
Answer these questions about Alexander the Great in Shakespeare's plays. Fluellen and Gower debate Alexander the Greatˈ place of birth and compare him to the protagonist of this play. This play ends with the marriage of its title character and Catherine of Valois after having earlier defeated the French at Agincourt. - ttddHenry V
Answer these questions about Alexander the Great in Shakespeare's plays. One character in this play introduces the Nine Worthies including Alexander the Great as ˈˈthe parish curateˈˈ before Sir Nathaniel tries to convince Boyet and others that he is Alexander the Great. Costard competes for the affection of one woman⸴ as does a man whose letter is swapped with one meant for Lady Rosaline. That man sings a song at this play's conclusion that he will respect the Princess's desire to wait a year to woo her. In this play⸴ the King of Navarre and three attendants declare they will fall in love for three years⸴ which is broken when Berowne tries to woo Rosaline. Don Armado impregnates Jaquenetta near the end of what comedy⸴ whose title concept is ˈˈwonˈˈ in a lost sequel? - ttddLove's Labour Lost
Identify these twentieth century British authors. This author wrote the To the Ends of the Earth trilogy that includes Rites of Passage; however⸴ he is more notable for writing about the power struggle between Jack and Ralph in The Lord of the Flies. - ttddWilliam Golding
Identify these twentieth century British authors. This author wrote about Victor Crabbe's teaching career at the Mansor School in his trilogy The Malayan Trilogy. He may be better known for a novel in which the protagonist rapes a woman shortly after leaving the Korova Milkbar⸴ A Clockwork Orange. - ttddAnthony Burgess
Identify these twentieth century British authors. In one of this author's novels⸴ Virginia reconciles with her husband Guy Crouchback following his service in World War II; that novel⸴ Unconditional Surrender⸴ is part of his Sword of Honor trilogy. In another novel⸴ one character deserts his wife by moving to Venice after having converted to Catholicism to marry her. That novel⸴ beginning with the section ˈˈEt in Arcadia Ego⸴ˈˈ sees Sebastian Flyte travel to Morocco due to his acrimonious relationships strained by alcohol. Charles Ryder returns to the title location in what author's novel Brideshead Revisited? - ttddEvelyn Waugh American Government/Economics: Name the following related to men who served as justices on the Supreme Court.
Identify these European authors who wrote about Roman emperors. This playwright's longest work⸴ Emperor and Galilean⸴ concerns Julian⸴ who travels to Athens away from Constantine II before becoming Emperor in the second act. Arnold Rubek falls in love with Irene in a mountain resort in his play When We Dead Awaken. - ttddHenrik Ibsen
Identify these European authors who wrote about Roman emperors. This author wrote a novel framed as an autobiography of the title ruler who shrinks behind a curtain as the Praetorian Guard kills his predecessor Caligula. In addition to writing I⸴ Claudius and Claudius the God⸴ he wrote The Greek Myths. - ttddRobert von Ranke Graves
Identify these European authors who wrote about Roman emperors. One of this author's plays sees Caligula try to orchestrate his own assassination. This author published that play with another in which Martha⸴ Mother⸴ and the Old Man kill people who stay in their guest house in order to rob them⸴ including their estranged brother Jan⸴ entitled The Misunderstanding. Daru gives a prisoner the option to turn himself in in this man's story ˈˈThe Guest⸴ˈˈ which is collected in Exile and the Kingdom. In one of his novels⸴ the protagonist angrily rejects a priest visiting him in prison prior to his execution by guillotine as punishment for shooting an Arab. Identify this French existentialist author of The Stranger. - ttddAlbert Camus American Government/Economics: Name the following related to the Articles of Confederation.
Identify these Middle Eastern authors. This Lebanese author wrote about Selma Effandi's love for another man despite her engagement to a bishop's nephew in his poem Broken Wings. He is better known for a collection of twenty-six poems framed by the narrative of Almustafa travelling home⸴ The Prophet. - ttddKhalil Gibran
Identify these Middle Eastern authors. This poet's followers founded the Sufi Whirling Dervishes. His poetry includes the Spiritual Couplets and ghazals collected in Diwan Shams Tabrizi. - ttddJalāl ad-Dīn Muhammad Rumi
Identify these Middle Eastern authors. In one novel by this author⸴ Nabi assists Mr. Wahdati with suicide after having taken care of him for over fifty years. In that novel⸴ Saboor sells his daughter Pari. In another novel by this author⸴ one character travels to stay with her father Jalil after her mother committed suicide; in that novel⸴ Mariam and Laila are abused by their husband Rasheed⸴ whom they kill with a shovel. This author of And the Mountains Echoed is best known for a novel in which Hassan is rapped by Assef following a knife fighting competition. In that novel⸴ Amir immigrates to California following the Soviet invasion of his country. Name this Afghani author who wrote A Thousand Splendid Suns and The Kite Runner. - ttddKhaled Hosseini American Government/Economics: Name these former state governors.
Answer these questions about different poetic movements. This movement stressed emotion and passions as opposed to rationalism and included authors like William Wordsworth and John Keats. The American branch included Nathaniel Hawthorne and Herman Melville. - ttddRomanticism [accept word forms like ˈˈRomanticˈˈ]
Answer these questions about different poetic movements. Jean Moreas published a manifesto named for this French movement⸴ including Charles Baudelaire and Paul Verlaine. This movement was known for the ˈˈdecadenceˈˈ of its writers. - ttddSymbolism [accept word forms like ˈˈSymbolistˈˈ]
Answer these questions about different poetic movements. One poet from this movement extensively adapted ancient plays in poems like ˈˈHERmioneˈˈ and ˈˈHelen in Egypt.ˈˈ That poet published her work with an epitaph indicating her status as a member of this movement. One poet described this movement's elucidation of abstract concepts through the use of ˈˈluminous detailsˈˈ in his essay ˈˈI Gather the Limbs of Osiris.ˈˈ That author also described his Ideogrammic method while writing poetry in his book The ABC of Reading. That man produced a poem heavily influenced by this movement⸴ ˈˈIn the Station of the Metro.ˈˈ Name this movement that includes writers like Hilda ˈˈH.D.ˈˈ Doolittle and Ezra Pound⸴ which used poetry to create the namesake objects. - ttddImagism [accept word forms like ˈˈImagistˈˈ; accept ˈˈModernismˈˈ or ˈˈModernistˈˈ before ˈˈstatus as a memberˈˈ since H.D. and Pound were both modernists⸴ but her epigraph was ˈˈImagisteˈˈ] American Government/Economics: Name these Presidents when given information about their Cabinet Secretaries.
Name these British poets. This poet's collection entitled the Hesperides contains ˈˈCorinna Goes A-Mayingˈˈ and ˈˈTo the Virgins to Make Much of Time⸴ˈˈ which begins ˈˈGather ye rosebuds while ye may.ˈˈ - ttddRobert Herrick
Name these British poets. This poet was known for the use of ˈˈsprung rhythmˈˈ in poems such as ˈˈGod's Grandeur⸴ˈˈ ˈˈPied Beauty⸴ˈˈ and ˈˈThe Windhover.ˈˈ - ttddGerard Manley Hopkins
Name these British poets. In one poem⸴ this poet declares that ˈˈYou shall love your crooked neighbor with your crooked heartˈˈ and begins by establishing that the title action was done ˈˈdown Bristol Street.ˈˈ This poet wrote a poem whose speaker laments that his lover was ˈˈmy North my South my East and West.ˈˈ In addition to ˈˈAs I Walked Out One Eveningˈˈ and ˈˈFuneral Blues⸴ˈˈ this poet wrote about a ploughman who ˈˈmay have heard the splashˈˈ of a certain mythological character. That poem begins ˈˈAbout suffering they were never wrong⸴ the old masters.ˈˈ What British poet wrote about Breughel's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus in ˈˈMusee de Beaux Arts.ˈˈ - ttddW. H. Auden
Identify some Russian characters who like to duel. In Pushkin's poem Eugene Onegin⸴ Onegin kills this poet and fiancé of Olga after she flirts with him at Tatyana's name day celebration. - ttddVladimir Lensky [accept either underlined part]
Identify some Russian characters who like to duel. In War and Peace⸴ Dolokhov fights this man in a duel after rumors spread that Helene is having an affair with Dolokhov. This character then joins the Freemasons. - ttddPierre Bezukhov [accept either underlined part]
Identify some Russian characters who like to duel. This character wounds another in a duel after that man sees him kiss the servant Fenechka. This character⸴ who jokes that ˈˈA decent chemist is twenty times more useful than any poetˈˈ is invited to stay at the Nikolskoe estate with his friend⸴ who later marries Katya⸴ by Madame Odintsova. This character dies of typhus after cutting himself during an autopsy. Pavel and Nikolai Kirsanov are disconcerted by the nihilism of what intellectual⸴ the protagonist of Ivan Turgenev's novel Fathers and Sons? - ttddYevgeny Vasilevich Bazarov [accept either underlined part] American Government/Economics: Name these former Secretaries of State.
Answer these questions about suicide in Asian Literature. In this author's novel Quicksand⸴ the lovers Sonoko⸴ Kotaro⸴ and Mitsuko agree to commit suicide together⸴ though the latter two withhold the poison at the last second to save Sonoko. He also wrote about the attempt to find Yukiko a husband in his novel The Makioka Sisters. - ttddJun'ichiro Tanizaki
Answer these questions about suicide in Asian Literature. In this early playwright's work The Love Suicides at Sonezaki⸴ Tokubei and Ohatsu escape to the Woods of Tenjin to commit suicide after he is swindled by Kuheiji. He also wrote The Love Suicides at Amijima and The Battles of Coxinga. - ttddMonzaemon Chikamatsu
Answer these questions about suicide in Asian Literature. In one of this author's novels⸴ the protagonist attempts suicide in his childhood after doubting his ability to write a comprehensive history of Ose on Shikoku Island. Another of his novels sees a father and son magically become twenty years younger and older⸴ respectively⸴ before being tasked to threaten Tokyo with a bomb by ˈˈthe Patron.ˈˈ In addition to M/T and the Narrative About the Marvels of the Forests⸴ this author wrote a novel in which a man hangs himself after an interaction with a cucumber. In that novel by him⸴ Takashi secretly sells his family's land to the Emperor⸴ to the dismay of Mitsusaburo. Identify this author of The Pinch Runner Memorandum⸴ The Silent Cry⸴ and A Personal Matter. - ttddKenzaburo Oe American Government/Economics: Name the following related to the judicial branch of government.
Identify the languages of the following works. What language was used by Petrarch to write about his love Laura in a Songbook of sonnets? - ttddItalian
Identify the languages of the following works. The 20th century anti-colonial Negritude movement included authors who wrote in what European language? Leopold Senghor⸴ the eventual president of Senegal⸴ was part of this movement. - ttddFrench
Identify the languages of the following works. In one story in this language⸴ a man murders his wife upon discovering a slave with an apple he supposedly received from her. In one scene in a novel set in this language⸴ the former lover of one character is hired to sing at his daughter's wedding⸴ which upsets Fahmy. A series of stories in this language are all told with cliffhanger endings so that King Shahryar will not kill the teller of the stories⸴ Scheherazade. Palace Walk⸴ part of Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy⸴ is in this language. Identify this language of 1001 Nights. - ttddArabic
Identify these Japanese authors. What early 20th century Japanese author wrote such short stories as ˈˈRashomonˈˈ and ˈˈIn a Groveˈˈ? This author is the namesake of a prestigious Japanese literary award. - ttddRyunosuke Akutagawa
Identify these Japanese authors. What Heian period court lady's musings and lists such as ˈˈpleasant thingsˈˈ and ˈˈhateful thingsˈˈ were published as The Pillow Book? - ttddSei Shonagon (accept Lady Sei)
Identify these Japanese authors. In one novel by this author⸴ a character hides his crush on Kusano by dating Kusano's sister. In that novel by this author⸴ paintings of Saint Sebastian and Joan of Arc make Kochan question his sexuality. The kendo athlete Isao plots to assassinate some politicians in Runaway Horses⸴ a novel in this author's Sea of Fertility tetralogy. Another novel by this author ends with the disturbed Mizoguchi burning down the title structure. Identify this author of Confessions of a Mask and The Temple of the Golden Pavilion. - ttddYukio Mishima (accept either)
Answer some questions about a literary genre. What genre of horror began with the publication of Horace Walpole's novel⸴ The Castle of Otranto⸴ which features some of this genre's hallmarks like trapdoors and supernatural castles? - ttddGothic
Answer some questions about a literary genre. What author wrote a major parody of Gothic literature entitled Northanger Abbey⸴ in which the teen Catherine Morland believes the title home to be haunted? - ttddJane Austen
Answer some questions about a literary genre. The narrator of this novel discovers fresh flowers in a room in the unused west wing of the central estate⸴ where later⸴ a housekeeper encourages her to jump out the window. After being threatened with blackmail by Jack Favell⸴ one character in this novel reveals that he intentionally misidentified a body. The narrator of this novel is horrified to learn that the party dress she wore on the suggestion of Mrs. Danvers was previously worn by the title character. This novel opens ˈˈLast night I dreamt I went to Manderley againˈˈ and is narrated by Maxim de Winter's new wife. Identify this novel by Daphne du Maurier. - ttddRebecca
Identify these Russian authors. What author published the cycle of poems⸴ My Sister Life? He also wrote poems like ˈˈBad Roads in Springˈˈ and ˈˈHamletˈˈ as Yuri⸴ his most famous character. - ttddBoris Pasternak
Identify these Russian authors. What author wrote about Satan visiting the USSR under the guise of Professor Woland in his novel The Master and Margarita? - ttddMikhail Bulgakov
Identify these Russian authors. This author wrote a short play in which Nyukhin rants about his wife's complaining and refusal to give parties rather than give the title boring lecture. In another work by this author⸴ Vershinin begins an affair with the wife of the Latin teacher Kulygin⸴ though Kulygin admits that he might have been happier with his wife's sister Olga. In addition to On the Harmful Effects of Tobacco⸴ this author wrote a work in which Konstantin presents Nina the title dead bird as a symbol of his love. Who is this Russian playwright of Three Sisters and The Seagull? - ttddAnton Chekhov
Identify these British poems. In what Lord Byron epic does Catherine the Great fall in love with the title character⸴ whom she enlists for her harem? - ttddDon Juan [don JOO-uhn]
Identify these British poems. What Christina Rossetti poem contains the line ˈˈThere is no friend like a sisterˈˈ and tells the story of Lizzie saving her sister Laura from the curse of the title creatures? - ttddˈˈGoblin Marketˈˈ
Identify these British poems. The title character of this poem falls in love with a character who sings ˈˈTirra lirra⸴ tirra lirra.ˈˈ This poem opens with a description of ˈˈlong fields of barley and of ryeˈˈ that ˈˈon either side the river lie.ˈˈ The title character of this poem is trapped within ˈˈfour gray walls⸴ and four gray towersˈˈ that ˈˈoverlook a space of flowersˈˈ before she decides to climb into a ˈˈshallow boatˈˈ to sail for Camelot. Identify this poem about a cursed maiden who falls in love with Sir Lancelot⸴ a poem by Alfred Lord Tennyson. - ttddˈˈThe Lady of Shalottˈˈ
Identify these German-language authors. What post-World War II German author wrote such novels as The Lost Honour of Katharina Blum and Billiards at Half Past Nine? - ttddHeinrich Boll
Identify these German-language authors. What early 19th century German author is famous for his short stories⸴ including one about Anselmus the archivist⸴ ˈˈThe Golden Pot⸴ˈˈ and one about the title monster⸴ ˈˈThe Sandmanˈˈ? - ttddE. T. A. Hoffmann
Identify these German-language authors. This author drew inspiration from a 14th century Chinese play by Li Qianfu [chyan-foo] to write a play in which Natella and Grusha are told to pull the child Michael from the title construct to determine which is his mother. In addition to The Caucasian Chalk Circle⸴ another play by this author is interspersed with songs like ˈˈThe Great Capitulationˈˈ and the ˈˈFraternization Song.ˈˈ The title character of that play by this author attempts to save her son Swiss Cheese's life by selling her cart⸴ but he is executed during the Thirty Years' War anyway. Identify this playwright of Mother Courage and Her Children. - ttddBertolt Brecht
Identify the languages of the following works. What language was used by Karel Capek to write the play R.U.R.⸴ which introduced ˈˈrobotˈˈ to the English language? This language was also used by Milan Kundera to write The Book of Laughter and Forgetting. - ttddCzech
Identify the languages of the following works. What language was used by Constantine Cavafy to write a poem that begins ˈˈWhat are we waiting for⸴ assembled in the forum?ˈˈ called ˈˈWaiting for the Barbarians.ˈˈ This language was also used to write The Last Temptation of Christ. - ttddGreek (The Last Temptation of Christ is by Nikos Kazantzakis)
Identify the languages of the following works. One novel featuring this language is a murder mystery by Michael Chabon named for a Policemen's Union. One story in this language ends with the title narrator urinating in some bread dough after discovering that none of his children with Elka are actually his. That story in this language is ˈˈGimpel the Fool.ˈˈ In another story in this language⸴ one character explains how he came into his current profession after two women gift him a cow. That story⸴ ˈˈThe Great Windfall⸴ˈˈ appears in a collection in this language⸴ Tevye the Dairyman⸴ which served as the basis for the musical Fiddler on the Roof. Identify this language used by Isaac Bashevis Singer and Sholem Aleichem⸴ two Jewish authors. - ttddYiddish (the Chabon novel is The Yiddish Policemenˈs Union)
In this set of questions⸴ you will name writers who wrote about alchemy. What writer⸴ the husband of Elizabeth Barrett⸴ wrote about an alchemist who contemplates his achievements in Paracelsus (ˈˈPAIRˈˈ-uh-SELL-suss)? - ttddRobert Browning
In this set of questions⸴ you will name writers who wrote about alchemy. What author⸴ the wife of Percy⸴ wrote about a scientist named Victor who creates a monster through assemblages and alchemy? - ttddMary Wollstonecraft Shelley
In this set of questions⸴ you will name writers who wrote about alchemy. This writer wrote a story about a canon who tricks a clergyman into thinking mercury can be alchemized into quicksilver. Another story by this writer concerns a fox getting outwitted by a proud cock named Chauntecleer (CHAWN- tih-ˈˈclearˈˈ). In another story by this author⸴ Nicholas farts into the face of Absolon (ab-SO-lawn)⸴ who then uses a red hot poker to singe Nicholas' rear end. All of those stories by this author appear in a collection that opens with a General Prologue in which pilgrims stay at the Tabard Inn. Name this medieval English author who included ˈˈThe Miller's Taleˈˈ as one of his many Canterbury Tales. - ttddGeoffrey Chaucer
Name the following related to William Shakespeare. Antonio is the title character of what play by William Shakespeare that includes a moneylender named Shylock? - ttddThe Merchant of Venice
Name the following related to William Shakespeare. What play by William Shakespeare includes Goneril [GAHN-er-uhl] and Regan⸴ who are two ungrateful daughters of the title character? - ttddThe Tragedy of King Lear
Name the following related to William Shakespeare. This writer imagined a fictional sister of William Shakespeare who is denied the opportunity to write because she lacks ˈˈa room of one's own.ˈˈ This author wrote about six friends⸴ including Bernard and Neville (neh-VUHL)⸴ who soliloquize on the nature of life⸴ in an experimental work in which the theme of water provides a backdrop. Lily Briscoe visits the Ramsays (RAM-seez)⸴ who live on the Isle of Skye⸴ in a book by this author named for a sea-side structure that Mr. Ramsay wishes to visit. Name this author of the Bloomsbury Group who penned The Waves and To the Lighthouse. - ttddAdeline Virginia Woolf [accept Virginia Stephen]
Name these authors who wrote about large beasts. What soldier⸴ prisoner⸴ and author wrote about the ˈˈquesting beastˈˈ in his compilation of Arthurian myth⸴ Le Morte Darthur (luh mort DAR-thur)? - ttddThomas Mallory
Name these authors who wrote about large beasts. What author wrote about a giant bear who is exposed to the politics of the Beklan Empire in Shardik? A rabbit named Hazel is the protagonist of his novel Watership Down. - ttddRichard George Adams
Name these authors who wrote about large beasts. In one work this author wrote about Calidore (CAL-ih-door)⸴ a knight whose mission is to slay the Blatant Beast. In that poem by this author⸴ the recurring character of Colin Clout plays songs on his bagpipe. This man's love for Elizabeth Boyle inspired his sonnet sequence Amoretti (ah-moh-RET-ee). Holiness⸴ Temperance⸴ Chastity⸴ Friendship⸴ Justice⸴ and Courtesy are the themes of his masterpiece⸴ which makes use of the ABABBCBCC (ˈˈA-B-A-B-B-C-B-C-Cˈˈ) rhyme scheme and idealizes Queen Elizabeth as the title figure. Name this 16th century author of the epic poem The Faerie Queene. - ttddEdmund Spenser
Name these British poets. What British poet⸴ the author of ˈˈWhen I was One and Twentyˈˈ wrote about being able to ˈˈsee the cherry hung with snowˈˈ in his poem ˈˈLoveliest of Treesˈˈ? - ttddAlfred Edward Housman
Name these British poets. What other British poet described ˈˈhappy bells⸴ across the snowˈˈ in his poem ˈˈRing Outˈˈ⸴ which is part of a sequence commemorating Arthur Hallam? - ttddAlfred⸴ Lord Tennyson [or 1st Baron Tennyson]
Name these British poets. This author wrote about seeing his cradled infant Hartley in a poem that begins by describing how the title phenomenon ˈˈperforms its secret ministry unhelped by any wind.ˈˈ He addressed his ˈˈpensive Saraˈˈ at the beginning of a poem about a musical instrument ˈˈplaced length-ways in the clasping casement.ˈˈ This author of ˈˈFrost at Midnightˈˈ and ˈˈThe Aeolian (ee-OH-lee-in) Harpˈˈ had one of his works interrupted by the Person from Porlock. That work is set where ˈˈAlph⸴ the sacred river⸴ ranˈˈ and describes a ˈˈstately pleasure-domeˈˈ in Xanadu (ZAN-uh-dew). Name this British poet who wrote ˈˈKubla Khan.ˈˈ - ttddSamuel Taylor Coleridge
Name the following related to East Asian literature. What work by Lady Murasaki (MUR-uh-sah-kee)⸴ sometimes considered to be the first novel⸴ is a depiction of classical Japanese court life? - ttddThe Tale of Genji or [Genji monogatari]
Name the following related to East Asian literature. Zeami (zay-AHM-ee) is considered to be a practitioner of what medieval Japanese art form⸴ which emphasizes a slow⸴ stylized performance and actors with masks? - ttddnoh [or nogaku or noh drama or noh play or noh theater]
Name the following related to East Asian literature. In this work⸴ a character causes fiery bricks to fall from heaven⸴ leading to the creation of Flaming Mountain. A group of characters in this work make a pilgrimage to Vulture Peak. This novel's main character was born from a magic stone infused with the power of heaven on top of a mountain. This novel's characters include Pigsy⸴ Sandy⸴ and Sun Wukong⸴ who sometimes provides the alternate name of this novel⸴ (*) Monkey. Name this novel⸴ one of the four Chinese classics⸴ which is named for a voyage to India. - ttddJourney to the West [or Xi You Ji or Hsi-yu chi; prompt on ˈˈAdventures of the Monkey Godˈˈ or ˈˈMonkey to the Westˈˈ or ˈˈThe Adventures of Monkeyˈˈ; prompt on ˈˈMonkeyˈˈ before (*)]
Give the following related to lunar references in works of literature. From the Earth to the Moon is one of the many science fiction novels in which what author depicts journeys to the moon? - ttddJules Gabriel Verne
Give the following related to lunar references in works of literature. What author of Comical History of the States and Empires of the Moon is better known for appearing in a 19th century play in which he secretly loves Roxane? - ttddHercule-Savinien Cyrano De Bergerac
Give the following related to lunar references in works of literature. The oldest piece of prose in this country's literary tradition describes a girl that is found in a plant leaf as a youth and raised by human foster-parents before becoming Princess of the Moon. A novelist from this country wrote about an old man⸴ who visits an establishment in which all of the young girls have been drugged⸴ in the novella The House of the Sleeping Beauties. That author from this nation also wrote Snow Country⸴ which is set in a hot springs town⸴ or onsen. Name this country that was home to the writer Yasunari Kawabata. - ttddJapan [or Nihon-koku or Nippon-koku]
Name these European authors. What Czech author never finished his novel about K.⸴ who tries to enter the title structure⸴ titled The Castle? - ttddFranz Kafka [or Franz Anschel]
Name these European authors. What Czech author wrote about Tomas and Teresa⸴ who live during the Prague Spring⸴ in The Unbearable Lightness of Being? - ttddMilan Kundera
Name these European authors. This author adapted Arthur Schnitzler's (SHNITZ-lurz) play The Distant Land into his own play The Undiscovered Country. The events that lead to the Russian Revolution are the subject of his three plays Voyage⸴ Shipwreck⸴ and Salvage. In another play by this author⸴ the title characters and the Tragedians (tra-juh-DEE-unz) hide in barrels while pirates attack their boat. In that play by this author⸴ the two title characters perform The Murder of Gonzago after flipping a coin 92 times and seeing it land on heads every time. Name this author of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead. - ttddTom Stoppard [or Tomáš Straussler]
Give the following related to illustrators of English literature. Hablot Browne illustrated the novels of what author⸴ whose works include Martin Chuzzlewit and Bleak House? - ttddCharles John Huffam Dickens
Give the following related to illustrators of English literature. John Tenniel illustrated what Lewis Carroll novel⸴ whose characters included the Red Queen and Tweedledum? - ttddThrough the Looking Glass⸴ and What Alice Found There
Give the following related to illustrators of English literature. At the end of this story⸴ which was illustrated by Sidney Paget (PUH-jay)⸴ a sea-battered stern post with the letters ˈˈL.S.ˈˈ painted on it is discovered. This story is told through the character of John Openshaw⸴ who describes how his Uncle Elias is a former colonel that is given an envelope with the title objects; that envelope causes him to burn some secret papers and pace frantically before he is found dead in his own pool. Name this short story in which Sherlock Holmes deduces that a boat captain and his two mates are members of the K.K.K. and thus responsible for two murders. - ttddˈˈThe Five Orange Pipsˈˈ
Answer the following about authors who wrote epic poems. The Shield of Heracles and Works and Days are epic poems by what Greek author⸴ who described the origin of the gods in Theogony (THEE-odj-uh-nee)? - ttddHesiod
Answer the following about authors who wrote epic poems. Apollonius Rhodius (APP-uh-loh-nee-us ROE-dee-us) wrote an epic poem about what object from Greek mythology that was used in a journey from Iolcus (EE-oll-cuss) to Colchis (KOLL-chiss) to acquire an item possessed by King Aeetes (ˈˈeyeˈˈ-EE-teez). - ttddArgo
Answer the following about authors who wrote epic poems. This man wrote an epic poem about ˈˈThe Death and Judgment of the Eternal Manˈˈ that is named for Tharmas (TAR-muss)⸴ Luvah (LOO-vuh)⸴ Urizen (YUR-ee-zen)⸴ and Urthona (UR-thoe-nuh). This author of The Four Zoas wrote a shorter poem that begins ˈˈI was angry with my friend; I told my wrath⸴ my wrath did not end.ˈˈ That poem ends with the speaker seeing his foe outstretched beneath the title plant. Another poem⸴ which appears in the same collection as the previous one⸴ describes an ˈˈinvisible worm⸴ that flies in the night.ˈˈ Name this author whose poems ˈˈA Poison Treeˈˈ and ˈˈThe Sick Roseˈˈ appear in Songs of Innocence and Experience. - ttddWilliam Blake
Identify the following countries given clues about their authors. David Balfour is taken aboard the Covenant against his will in the novel Kidnapped⸴ by what country's author Robert Louis Stevenson? This country is also home to the poet of ˈˈAuld Lang Syne⸴ˈˈ Robert Burns. - ttddScotland (prompt on Great Britain or the United Kingdom; do not accept or prompt on England)
Identify the following countries given clues about their authors. The title precocious girl moves to Nova Scotia to the Cuthbert farm in Anne of Green Gables⸴ by what country's author Lucy Maud Montgomery? The author of The Life of Pi⸴ Yann Martel⸴ is also from here. - ttddCanada
Identify the following countries given clues about their authors. A letter from this country is lost in the mail⸴ leading two people from this country to settle on naming their child after a Russian author in the novel The Namesake. One poet from this country wrote ˈˈThou hast made me endless⸴ such is thy pleasureˈˈ in the opening poem of a collection of Song Offerings. This country is also home to an author who wrote a novel that opens with a plane explosion being survived by Saladin Chamcha and Gibreel Farishta. That author from this country had a fatwa placed on his head for writing Satanic Verses. Identify this home country of Rabindranath Tagore and Salman Rushdie. - ttddIndia
Identify these British poems. What poem beginning with the narrator noting that ˈˈFive years have pastˈˈ since he last visited the title old church was written by William Wordsworth? - ttddˈˈTintern Abbeyˈˈ
Identify these British poems. In what Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem does the title character relate a story about how his killing of an albatross cursed him to float alone on the sea? The line ˈˈwater⸴ water everywhere nor any drop to drinkˈˈ is from this poem. - ttddˈˈRime of the Ancient Marinerˈˈ
Identify these British poems. This poem's author states ˈˈthings are bad all overˈˈ and begs ˈˈTry to be true to meˈˈ to the title character of a work inspired by this poem. That work inspired by this poem was written by Anthony Hecht. This poem describes an entity ˈˈat the fullˈˈ that ˈˈlay like the folds of a bright girdle furledˈˈ and that drones a ˈˈmelancholy⸴ long⸴ withdrawing roar.ˈˈ ˈˈThe eternal note of sadnessˈˈ is heard by ˈˈSophocles⸴ long agoˈˈ on the Aegean in this poem⸴ that ends with the description of a place where ˈˈignorant armies clash by night.ˈˈ Identify this poem beginning ˈˈThe sea is calm tonightˈˈ by Matthew Arnold. - ttddˈˈDover Beachˈˈ
Answer the following about Russian literature. What author wrote about Prince Myshkin's adoration for Nastassya in The Idiot and about Dmitri being accused of his father's murder in The Brothers Karamazov? - ttddFyodor Dostoevsky
Answer the following about Russian literature. Alexander Solzhenitsyn's One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich is set at what kind of place? Solzhenitsyn also published a work named for an Archipelago of these places⸴ in which he recounts his time as a prisoner in one of them. - ttddgulags (prompt on less specific answers like camps or prisons)
Answer the following about Russian literature. After viewing a painting of Jesus and Pontius Pilate⸴ one character in this novel commissions a portrait of his lover from Mikhailov once he realizes that he cannot paint her adequately. One character in this novel grows suspicious of his wife after she pays close attention to a horse race in which Frou-Frou's back is accidentally broken. That woman visits her son Seryozha during secret visits to St Petersburg⸴ though she fears being caught by the husband she left for Count Vronsky. Ending with the title character throwing herself in front of a train⸴ identify this Leo Tolstoy novel. - ttddAnna Karenina
Identify these poetry collections from around the world. What important collection of symbolist poetry opens with the poem ˈˈAu Lecteur⸴ˈˈ or ˈˈTo the Reader⸴ˈˈ in which the narrator calls the addressee ˈˈHypocrite reader! My fellow - my brother!ˈˈ? - ttddThe Flowers of Evil or Les Fleurs du Mal
Identify these poetry collections from around the world. What collection of Persian quatrains was translated to English by Edward FitzGerald and contains such lines as those describing ˈˈA book of verses underneath the bough⸴ a jug of wine⸴ a loaf of bread⸴ and thouˈˈ? - ttddThe Rubaiyat
Identify these poetry collections from around the world. The lines ˈˈYour presence is foreign⸴ as strange to me as a thingˈˈ and ˈˈWho are you? Who are you?ˈˈ are found in this collection's poem ˈˈThinking⸴ Tangling Shadows.ˈˈ One poem in this collection describes ˈˈthe hour of departure⸴ the hard cold hour which the night fastens to all the timetablesˈˈ and opens with the line ˈˈThe memory of you emerges from the night around me.ˈˈ This collection's penultimate poem opens with the narrator presenting ˈˈThe night is starry and the stars are blue and shiver in the distanceˈˈ as one of the ˈˈsaddest linesˈˈ that he can ˈˈwrite tonight.ˈˈ Identify this collection of poems by Pablo Neruda. - ttddTwenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair
Answer some questions about epic poems. The Hindu epics the Ramayana and the Mahabharata were written in what ancient language? - ttddSanskrit
Answer some questions about epic poems. An ancient Sumerian epic is named for what hero and king of Uruk who kills the Bull of Heaven alongside his friend Enkidu? - ttddGilgamesh
Answer some questions about epic poems. In one poem⸴ a hippogriff and flaming chariot transport Astolfo to the moon to retrieve this character's sanity⸴ after which this character kills King Agramante. That Italian epic featuring this character is named for [this character] Furioso. In another epic⸴ Archbishop Turpin instructs this character to blow his oliphant horn to signal for help from Charlemagne's forces during the Battle of Roncevaux Pass. Identify this character who appears in a French epic named for his Song. - ttddOrlando or Roland
Answer these questions about the Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges. In one of his stories⸴ the narrator describes the destruction of the Purifiers while searching for the Crimson room⸴ one of the infinite hexagonal rooms in what title location? - ttddThe Library of Babel [prompt on ˈˈlibraryˈˈ]
Answer these questions about the Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges. What object is used to write a pedantic poem about the world by Carlos Daneri since it can be used to see every angle of any object in the world? It is located beneath the stairs of Daneri's house⸴ which is facing demolition. - ttddˈˈThe Alephˈˈ [accept ˈˈEl Alephˈˈ]
Answer these questions about the Argentine author Jorge Luis Borges. In ˈˈTheme of the Traitor and Hero⸴ˈˈ Nolan⸴ a translator of this author into Gaelic⸴ creates a story surrounding the death of Fergus Kilpatrick referencing this author's works before killing him. In another story⸴ the protagonist meets Daniel Thorpe at a convention held for this author⸴ after which the protagonist considers writing a biography of this man. In that story which shares its title with the collection it appears in⸴ Hermann Sörgel gains this man's memory⸴ which causes him to not recognize modern conveniences. Identify this prolific Elizabethan playwright. - ttddWilliam Shakespeare American Government/Economics: Name these men who served as Senators during the first half of the twentieth century.
Identify these British authors. What author drew upon his time in the Indian Imperial Police to write such novels as Burmese Days and such essays as ˈˈShooting an Elephantˈˈ? - ttddGeorge Orwell
Identify these British authors. While still writing under the pseudonym Boz⸴ what author published his first novel⸴ The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club in 1836? - ttddCharles Dickens
Identify these British authors. One novel by this author served as the inspiration for Zadie Smith's novel On Beauty. In one story by this author⸴ Kuno's escapades lead to the respirator machines required to visit the Earth's surface being made illegal. That story by this author is ˈˈThe Machine Stops.ˈˈ In a novel by this author⸴ Ruth bequeaths the title property to Margaret in a note⸴ though Henry burns it and keeps the property anyway. Identify this author who wrote about the Schlegel and the Wilcox families in Howards End. - ttddE. M. Forster
Identify these works by Latin American authors. What Carlos Fuentes novel follows the life and eventual passing of the title business magnate who was a Mexican Revolution veteran? - ttddThe Death of Artemio Cruz
Identify these works by Latin American authors. What Mario Vargas Llosa [yo-suh] novel follows Mario's work for the Panamericana radio station and his romance with the title divorcee? - ttddAunt Julia and the Scriptwriter
Identify these works by Latin American authors. In an attempt to please a girl in this novel⸴ one character presents her with a rug made from her dead dog Barrabas. At the Red Lantern⸴ one character befriends the prostitute Transito Soto⸴ who later saves that character's granddaughter from jail and torture at the hands of his illegitimate son. At this novel's beginning⸴ Rosa's death by poisoned brandy is predicted by her green-haired sister Clara. What novel chronicling the lives of the Trueba family was written by Isabel Allende? - ttddThe House of the Spirits
Name these poets who wrote works about Oliver Cromwell. This poet's Defensio Secunda discusses the nature of Oliver Cromwell's politics. This author's ˈˈLycidasˈˈ is an elegy for Edward King. - ttddJohn Milton
Name these poets who wrote works about Oliver Cromwell. This man stated that Cromwell could ˈˈnot cease in the inglorious arts of peaceˈˈ in a ˈˈHoratian Odeˈˈ depicting his ˈˈReturn from Ireland.ˈˈ This poet is better known for authoring ˈˈTo His Coy Mistress.ˈˈ - ttddAndrew Marvell
Name these poets who wrote works about Oliver Cromwell. In one poem⸴ this author wrote that ˈˈCromwell is ready / James calls for fires in Golgonooza.ˈˈ The speaker of another poem by this author hears ˈˈthe youthful Harlots curseˈˈ while walking through ˈˈeach charter'd street / near where the charter'd Thames (temz) does flow.ˈˈ In a third poem by this author⸴ the speaker references a time ˈˈwhen the stars threw down their spears.ˈˈ This author of Milton: A Poem in Two Books and ˈˈLondonˈˈ is better known for a poem that takes place ˈˈin the forests of the nightˈˈ and asks the question ˈˈwhat immortal hand could frame thy fearful symmetryˈˈ to an animal that is ˈˈburning bright.ˈˈ Name this author whose collection Songs of Experience contains the poem ˈˈThe Tyger.ˈˈ - ttddWilliam Blake U.S. Government/Economics: Name these Cabinet positions.
Name these characters created by William Shakespeare. This husband of Emilia tells Othello that jealousy is a ˈˈgreen-eyed monster which doth mock the meat it feeds on.ˈˈ - ttddIago
Name these characters created by William Shakespeare. In Hamlet⸴ this villainous king kills the father of Hamlet and marries the latter's mother⸴ Gertrude. - ttddKing Claudius
Name these characters created by William Shakespeare. In one speech⸴ this character describes the ˈˈstern alarums changed to merry meetingsˈˈ due to the presence of ˈˈgrim-visaged war.ˈˈ This character states that he ˈˈcannot prove a lover⸴ˈˈ so he is ˈˈdetermined to prove a villainˈˈ by making ˈˈdrunken propheciesˈˈ and hating ˈˈthe idle pleasures of these days.ˈˈ At the beginning of the play in which he appears⸴ he states ˈˈNow is the winter of our discontent⸴ made glorious by this sun of York.ˈˈ Shortly before being killed⸴ this title character offers ˈˈmy kingdom for a horse.ˈˈ Name this hunchbacked king who was the subject of a play set during the Wars of the Roses. - ttddRichard III [prompt on ˈˈRichardˈˈ] U.S. Government/Economics: Give the following related to the U.S. Constitution.
Name these title figures of British poems. A poem addressed to this figure ends by asking ˈˈIf winter comes⸴ can Spring be far behind?ˈˈ - ttddwest wind [accept ˈˈOde to the West Windˈˈ; prompt on ˈˈwindˈˈ]
Name these title figures of British poems. This author's translation of The Iliad and The Odyssey inspired John Keats to feel like ˈˈstout Cortez when...He star'd (ˈˈstaredˈˈ) at the Pacific.ˈˈ - ttddGeorge Chapman
Name these title figures of British poems. This character describes the ˈˈuncertain hour that agony returnsˈˈ since ˈˈthe heart within me burnsˈˈ until his ˈˈghastly tale is told.ˈˈ Upon taking someone's oars⸴ this man is told ˈˈfull plain I see⸴ the Devil knows how to row.ˈˈ This character⸴ who is twice called ˈˈbright-eyed⸴ˈˈ described ˈˈslimy things [that] did crawl with legs upon the slimy sea.ˈˈ A game of dice leads to Life-in-Death winning this character's soul. While talking with the ˈˈWedding Guest⸴ˈˈ this character describes how he was cursed for shooting an albatross. Name this title character of a Samuel Taylor Coleridge ˈˈrime.ˈˈ - ttddancient mariner or ancyent marinere [accept The Rime of the Ancient Mariner or The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere; prompt on partial answer] U.S. Government/Economics: Name these Supreme Court cases.
Answer the following about authors who wrote incredibly long novel series. The 20 volume novel series Les Rougon-Macquart (lay ROO-gahn muh-KART)⸴ which was set during the French Second Empire⸴ was penned by this naturalist author who also wrote the letter ˈˈJ'Accuseˈˈ (ZHAH-cooz). - ttddEmile Edouard Charles Antoine Zola
Answer the following about authors who wrote incredibly long novel series. Magical stories such as The Wild Ass's Skin⸴ and realist ones such as Eugenie Grandet [ˈˈYOUˈˈ-zhen-ee GRAN- day]⸴ are entries in this author's massive novel sequence entitled The Human Comedy. - ttddHonore de Balzac (awn-uh-ray duh ˈˈballˈˈ-zak)
Answer the following about authors who wrote incredibly long novel series. One author from this country wrote a 12 volume novel sequence⸴ whose volumes include Hearing Secret Harmonies and The Military Philosophers⸴ in his masterpiece A Dance to the Music of Time. Another author from this country wrote a six-volume series entitled The Chronicles of Barsetshire. Michael Henchard is the title character of one novel by an author from this country who also wrote The Return of the Native. Anthony Powell and Anthony Trollope are natives of what nation that was the setting for The Mayor of Casterbridge⸴ which was written by native Thomas Hardy? - ttddUnited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or U.K. [accept any underlined portion; accept England; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈScotlandˈˈ or ˈˈWalesˈˈ] U.S. Government/Economics: Name these individuals who sought the Republican nomination for president in the Election of 2016.
Name the following related to the mention of dogs in literature. This bank employee is stabbed to death ˈˈlike a dogˈˈ at the end of Franz Kafka's novel The Trial. - ttddJoseph K. (YOH-seff KAH) [accept either underlined portion]
Name the following related to the mention of dogs in literature. A dog named Karenin gets cancer in this Milan Kundera (MIH-lahn KOON-dair-uh) novel that centers on the married couple Tomas (toh-MAHSH) and Tereza (tuh-RAY-zah). - ttddThe Unbearable Lightness of Being
Name the following related to the mention of dogs in literature. This author included a dog named Merrylegs in a novel in which a mine-shaft accident claims the life of Stephen Blackpool. In that novel by this author⸴ a circus owner abandons his daughter⸴ Sissy Jupe⸴ in Coketown⸴ where she is forced to learn ˈˈfactsˈˈ by a friend and associate of Josiah Bounderby named Thomas Gradgrind. Another novel by this author features a woman who constantly knits names into her register. That woman⸴ Madame Defarge⸴ appears in a novel by this author in which the same woman is loved by both Sydney Carton and Charles Darnay in the years leading up to the French Revolution. Name this English author of Hard Times and A Tale of Two Cities. - ttddCharles John Huffam Dickens U.S. Government/Economics: Answer the following about economic treatises.
Answer the following about poetic meter. An unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable comprises this poetic meter. - ttddiamb [or iambus; accept iambic foot]
Answer the following about poetic meter. A stressed syllable followed by two unstressed syllables comprises this poetic meter. - ttdddactyl [or dactylic foot]
Answer the following about poetic meter. This poet used anapestic tetrameter in a poem whose last stanza states ˈˈand the idols are broke in the temple of Baal.ˈˈ That poem by this writer begins by describing how ˈˈthe Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold.ˈˈ This author of ˈˈThe Destruction of Sennacherib (seh-NAA-kuh-rub)ˈˈ wrote another poem about a person whose ˈˈsmiles that winˈˈ tell of ˈˈdays in goodness spent.ˈˈ The first stanza of that poem by this poet describes ˈˈtender light which heaven to gaudy day denies.ˈˈ The title woman of that poem by this author is compared to ˈˈthe night of cloudless climes and starry skies.ˈˈ Name this English poet of ˈˈShe Walks in Beautyˈˈ and Don Juan. - ttddLord Byron or George Gordon U.S. Government/Economics: Answer the following having to do with investment over long periods of time.
Questions in this category will deal with the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges (HOR-hay loo- EESS BOR-hayss). In this Borges short story⸴ the narrator describes a seemingly infinite structure which contains endless permutations of books. - ttddˈˈThe Library of Babelˈˈ [or ˈˈLa biblioteca de Babelˈˈ]
Questions in this category will deal with the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges (HOR-hay loo- EESS BOR-hayss). In this other Borges short story⸴ which takes place during World War 1⸴ the German spy Dr. Yu Tsun (yo soon) conveys a message to his superiors by murdering a man just prior to his capture and ultimate execution. - ttddˈˈThe Garden of Forking Pathsˈˈ [or ˈˈEl Jardin de senderos que se bifurcanˈˈ]
Questions in this category will deal with the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges (HOR-hay loo- EESS BOR-hayss). Jorge Luis Borges translated this collection's story ˈˈThe Ruined Man who Became Rich Again Through a Dreamˈˈ into Spanish. One story in this collection focuses on a cobbler named Ma'aruf (mah-ROOF). In one story from this collection⸴ boiling oil is used by Morgiana to kill a group of robbers known as the Forty Thieves. One character in this collection encounters the Old Man of the Sea and mythical birds called rocs during his seven voyages. In the frame story for this collection⸴ King Shahryar (SHAH-ree-ar) listens to the stories of the enchanting Scheherazade (shuh-HAIR- uh-ZAHD). Name this collection of folklore written in Arabic whose characters include Sinbad the Sailor⸴ Ali Baba⸴ and Aladdin. - ttddThe Thousand and One Nights or Arabian Nights [or Alf layla wa-layla; accept One Thousand and One Nights or The Book of the Thousand Nights and a Night or The Thousand and One Arabian Nights] U.S. Government/Economics: Name these current U.S. Governors.
Answer the following about dwarves in literature. A murderer named Piccoline is the title character of the novel The Dwarf by Par Lagerkvist (parr LAH-gur- kweest)⸴ who is a native of this country. A better known author from this nation wrote the play Miss Julie. - ttddKingdom of Sweden [or Konungariket Sverige]
Answer the following about dwarves in literature. This German author of The Meeting at Telgte (TELG-tuh) wrote about a dwarf named Oskar Matzerath who can shatter glass with his voice in the novel The Tin Drum. - ttddGunter (GOON-tur) Wilhelm Grass (grahss)
Answer the following about dwarves in literature. One picaresque novel written in this language is about the ˈˈlife and deedsˈˈ of a dwarf that survived the Thirty Years' War. One author writing in this language created a character who becomes so entranced by a puppet show put on by Master Peter that he rescues the female victim in the show. That author of the Exemplary Novels is best known for a novel in this language in which the Knight of the White Moon beats the title character⸴ who notably tilts at windmills that he thinks are giants. That character in a novel written in this language rides the horse Rocinante (roh-see-NAHN-tay) alongside his good friend Sancho Panza. Name this language in which Don Quixote (dohn kee-HOH-tay) was written by Miguel de Cervantes (ˈˈsirˈˈ-VAHN-tase). - ttddSpanish [accept Espanol] U.S. Government/Economics: Name these Supreme Court cases.
Answer the following about books set at colleges. A speech about ˈˈMerry Englandˈˈ is delivered by Professor Welch at the climax of this author's first novel⸴ Lucky Jim. This man fathered a contemporary British author named Martin. - ttddKingsley William Amis (AY-miss)
Answer the following about books set at colleges. The Max Beerbohm novel Zuleika Dobson takes place at a fictional Oxford University college with this name. In the Mikhail Bulgakov novel The Master and Margarita⸴ Aphranius arranges for a character with this name to be robbed and stabbed to death. - ttddJudas [accept Judas College or Judas Iscariot]
Answer the following about books set at colleges. One novel by this author focuses on the Daily Beast reporter William Boot⸴ who covers a war in a fictional African country named Ishmaelia. In this author's first novel⸴ the protagonist is expelled from Oxford after members of the Bullingdon Club cause Paul Pennyfeather to run across campus without any trousers. In another novel by this author⸴ a teddy bear named Aloysius is affectionately cared for by Lord Sebastian Flyte. This author of Scoop and Decline and Fall wrote about Lord Marchmain's return to Catholicism in a work about the ˈˈsacred and profane memoriesˈˈ of Charles Ryder. Name this 20th century British author of Brideshead Revisited. - ttddArthur Evelyn (EE-vuh-lin) St. John Waugh (wah) U.S. Government/Economics: Answer the following about an undesirable situation in economics.
Answer these questions about censored novels. A ruling by Judge John Woolsey allowed this 1922 novel to be brought into the U.S. This novel⸴ which is set on June 16th⸴ 1904⸴ depicts one day in the life of Leopold Bloom. - ttddUlysses
Answer these questions about censored novels. John Cleland wrote a commonly-censored book titled for a woman named Fanny with this surname. Perhaps the best known novel by Shirley Jackson is titled The Haunting of [this] House. - ttddHill [accept Fanny Hill or Frances Hill or The Haunting of Hill House]
Answer these questions about censored novels. According to Philip Larkin's ˈˈAnnus Mirabilis⸴ˈˈ the year between the end of the ban on this novel and the Beatles' first LP (ˈˈL-Pˈˈ) was the best year of the speaker's life. E.M. Forster and others testified at the trial in which Penguin Books was found ˈˈnot guiltyˈˈ of obscenity for publishing this novel⸴ which includes a character named Clifford who was paralyzed during World War 1. The title character of this novel⸴ whose name is Constance⸴ has an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. Name this controversial D.H. Lawrence novel about a title ˈˈlady.ˈˈ - ttddLady Chatterley's Lover U.S. Government/Economics: Give the following related to the House of Representatives.
Answer the following related to a certain Nobel laureate. This Frenchman who won the 1921 Nobel Prize is perhaps best known for authoring the novels The Gods are Athirst and Penguin Island. - ttddAnatole France (AH-nah-tohl frahnss) [or Jacques Anatole Francois Thibault]
Answer the following related to a certain Nobel laureate. Every piece of writing by Anatole France was put on the Catholic Church's Index of Banned Books⸴ which also included this other Frenchman's satirical work Persian Letters. - ttddMontesquieu (MAHN-tess-ˈˈskewˈˈ) [or Charles-Louis de Secondat⸴ baron de la Brede et de Montesquieu]
Answer the following related to a certain Nobel laureate. One character created by this author discusses a ˈˈlittle patch of yellow wallˈˈ during a scene in which he dies while viewing the Johan Vermeer painting View of Delft; that character⸴ whose name is Bergotte⸴ was inspired by Anatole France. This author depicted the homosexual relationship between Jupien and the Baron de Charlus (ˈˈbaronˈˈ duh shar- ˈˈLOOSEˈˈ) in an early 20th century work entitled Cities of the Plain. Charles Swann's mad love for Odette de Crecy is depicted in a novel by this author that opens in Combray. That novel by this author features an episode of ˈˈinvoluntaryˈˈ memory involving a madeleine cake. Name this French author who wrote Remembrance of Things Past. - ttddMarcel Proust (proost) [or Valentin Louis Georges Eugene Marcel Proust] U.S. Government/Economics: Name these Chief Justices of the Supreme Court.
Name these British playwrights. This author of the play The Massacre at Paris wrote a two-part play about a title 14th century Asian emperor entitled Tamburlaine the Great. - ttddChristopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
Name these British playwrights. The screenplay to the film Shakespeare in Love was written by this playwright⸴ who is best known for a play in which the two⸴ title Shakespearean characters conduct 92 straight coin flips that come up ˈˈheads.ˈˈ - ttddSir Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
Name these British playwrights. This man was arrested for co-writing a play with John Webster and George Chapman entitled Eastward Hoe. The title character of one of his plays pursues the rich widow Dame Pliant after being recruited into a scam by the butler Jeremy. The title character of another play by this author is served by the ˈˈparasiteˈˈ Mosca. At the opening of one play by this author⸴ Lovewit leaves London and the conman Subtle tricks Sir Epicure Mammon into giving him the Philosopher's Stone. ˈˈThe Foxˈˈ is the title character of one play by what 17th century author of Volpone and The Alchemist? - ttddBen Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] U.S. Government/Economics: Answer the following related to market failures.
Name these French authors. A giant scroll in the sky appears in Jacques the Fatalist⸴ which was a novel written by this author of Rameau's (rah-MOHZ) Nephew. - ttddDenis Diderot (dee-duh-roh)
Name these French authors. This author wrote about the spiritual purity of Alyssa in his novel Strait is the Gate⸴ which contrasts with the decadence of Michel in his novel The Immoralist. - ttddAndre Gide (zheed)
Name these French authors. One of this author's novels⸴ which takes place during the Fronde (frahnd)⸴ follows Baron des Canolles (ˈˈbaronˈˈ ˈˈdayˈˈ cah-NOHL)⸴ who is torn between his two lovers. This author of The Women's War is better known for a novel in which the protagonist is attacked with ˈˈsticks⸴ shovels⸴ and tongsˈˈ and has a letter stolen by Rochefort (ROHSH-for). Later⸴ that protagonist realizes that a woman is a villain when he sees a fleur-de-lis (flur duh lee) tattooed on her shoulder. This author is the father of the man best known for writing The Lady of Camellias (kam-meel-yuh). In one novel by this author⸴ the spy Milady (mih-ˈˈLADYˈˈ) de Winter attempts to kills D'artagnan (dar-tan-yun). Name this author who wrote about Athos⸴ Porthos⸴ and Aramis in The Three Musketeers. - ttddAlexandre Dumas (doo-MAH)⸴ pere [or Dumas Davy de la Pailleterie; do not accept or prompt on ˈˈAlexandre Dumas⸴ filsˈˈ] U.S. Government/Economics: Give the following related to political scandals.
Name these plays by William Shakespeare. The end of this play sees a vacation of the death sentence issued to the merchant Egeon⸴ who is the father of twin boys each named Antipholus. - ttddThe Comedy of Errors
Name these plays by William Shakespeare. One character utilizes the alias ˈˈGanymedeˈˈ in this play⸴ in which Celia voluntarily exiles herself to follow her cousin Rosalind. - ttddAs You Like It
Name these plays by William Shakespeare. One character in this play ˈˈin the moated grangeˈˈ repeatedly states ˈˈI am aweary⸴ awearyˈˈ in a poem by Alfred⸴ Lord Tennyson. In this play⸴ one character is shown the head of the deceased pirate Ragozine after unknowingly sleeping with a woman whom he had earlier spurned because her dowry sunk in a shipwreck. The antagonist of this play⸴ who is tricked into sleeping with Mariana⸴ was put into power by Duke Vincentio. In this play⸴ Lord Angelo demands to sleep with the chaste nun⸴ Isabella⸴ to secure the release of her brother Claudio⸴ who has been sentenced to death for impregnating an unmarried woman. Name this ˈˈproblem playˈˈ set in Vienna. - ttddMeasure for Measure U.S. Government/Economics: Answer the following about economic tradeoffs between two quantities.
Answer the following related to poems. ˈˈMithridates (mith-rih-DAH-teez)⸴ he died oldˈˈ are the final words of this A.E. Housman poem⸴ which notes that ˈˈale's the stuff to drink for fellows whom it hurts to think.ˈˈ Its title character is told to ˈˈeat your victuals fast enough.ˈˈ - ttddˈˈTerence⸴ this is stupid stuffˈˈ
Answer the following related to poems. In ˈˈTerence⸴ this is stupid stuff⸴ˈˈ Housman notes that ˈˈmalt does more than [this man] can to justify God's ways to man.ˈˈ L'Allegro (lah-LEG-roh) and Il Penseroso (eel PEN-suh-ROH-soh) are poems by this author⸴ who began one sonnet with the words ˈˈwhen I consider how my light is spent.ˈˈ - ttddJohn Milton
Answer the following related to poems. A poem that was inspired by this work imagines that Homer's sprite ˈˈcursed the access of that celestial thiefˈˈ; that poem was titled ˈˈA Vision Upon this Conceit of [this work].ˈˈ One section of this work focuses on the ˈˈlegend ofˈˈ Sir Artegall. In this work⸴ the boastful Braggadocchio (ˈˈbragˈˈ-uh-DOHSH-ee-oh) steals a horse belonging to Sir Guyon (ˈˈGUYˈˈ-ahn)⸴ who represents Temperance. In this poem⸴ Archimago (ˈˈARCHˈˈ-uh-mah-go) is a sorcerer who tempts the Redcrosse Knight. Gloriana is the title woman of this poem⸴ which was written in a style of ˈˈstanzasˈˈ named after its author. Elizabeth I is represented by the title monarch in what epic poem by Sir Edmund Spenser? - ttddThe Faerie Queene (ˈˈferry queenˈˈ) U.S. Government/Economics: Name these presidential elections.
Answer the following about fantasy literature. This fictional country⸴ which is situated north of the Calormen Empire⸴ is used by Prince Rabadash to launch an attack on Narnia in The Horse and His Boy. - ttddArchenland
Answer the following about fantasy literature. This posthumously published 1977 collection includes such sections as ˈˈThe Music of the Ainurˈˈ and ˈˈOf Beren and Luthien.ˈˈ - ttddThe Silmarillion (sil-muh-RILL-ee-un)
Answer the following about fantasy literature. This character visits a location near the mythical Strait of Anian (ah-nee-AHN) and the real life Cape Mendocino. This character is injured by hailstones and is used to scoop out the marrow of bones when he visits a country in which he is dipped into a bowl of cream by a dwarf who has become jealous of him. At one point⸴ this man shuns his family for many months so that he can be around and converse with his horses. In one scene⸴ this man witnesses a war between the Little-Endians and Big-Endians⸴ which began as an argument over the proper way to crack an egg. This man goes to the land of Brobdingnag after discovering a race of tiny people from Lilliput. Name this surgeon whose ˈˈtravelsˈˈ are the subject of a novel by Jonathan Swift. - ttddLemuel Gulliver [accept either underlined portion; accept Gulliver's Travels or Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World⸴ in Four Parts. By Lemuel Gulliver⸴ First a Surgeon⸴ and then a Captain of Several Ships] U.S. Government/Economics: Name these pieces of federal legislation.
Name these novels that have been considered the greatest British novels written. According to the BBC⸴ the third greatest British novel ever written is this work by Virginia Woolf⸴ which depicts a day in the life of a woman who is trying to throw a party. - ttddMrs. Dalloway
Name these novels that have been considered the greatest British novels written. Number two on that same BBC list is this other Virginia Woolf novel⸴ which depicts various trips taken by the Ramsay family. - ttddTo the Lighthouse
Name these novels that have been considered the greatest British novels written. In a scene from this novel⸴ one character believes that another may have a cold because he did not ˈˈjoin in the tune of Hanoverˈˈ during a service at the Lowick Church. John Raffles humiliates the rich banker Nicholas Bulstrode in this novel⸴ in which Fred Vincy marries Mary Garth. Another character in this novel is writing a book entitled The Key to All Mythologies and forbids the protagonist from marrying Will Ladislaw after he dies. In this greatest British novel according to the BBC⸴ Edward Casaubon is the first husband of this novel's protagonist⸴ Dorothea Brooke. Name this ˈˈstudy of provincial lifeˈˈ that was written by George Eliot. - ttddMiddlemarch⸴ A Study of Provincial Life U.S. Government/Economics: Name these federal government positions.
Answer the following about doctors in literature. The Doctor's Dilemma⸴ which depicts Sir Colenso Ridgeon's cure for tuberculosis⸴ is a play by this author of Major Barbara. - ttddGeorge Bernard Shaw
Answer the following about doctors in literature. H.G. Wells wrote a novel in which Edward Prendick visits the ˈˈIsland ofˈˈ this vivisectionist who makes many part-human/part-animal creatures. - ttddDoctor Moreau (mor-OH) [accept The Island of Doctor Moreau]
Answer the following about doctors in literature. This doctor collaborates with a man who used a wax effigy to trick the criminal Sebastian Moran into being arrested. In one story⸴ this man is surprised to learn that one of his friends⸴ disguised as a plumber⸴ has become engaged with a housemaid. In that story⸴ this man is silenced as he is about to reveal to the reader who killed Charles Augustus Milverton. This doctor has just returned from fighting in the second Anglo-Afghan War at the beginning of the novel A Study in Scarlet. This doctor's most notable friend lives at 221B (ˈˈtwo twenty-one Bˈˈ) Baker Street. Name this doctor who narrates most of the stories featuring the detective Sherlock Holmes. - ttddDoctor John H. Watson U.S. Government/Economics: Name these amendments to the U.S. Constitution.
Name these works of literature by Eastern Hemisphere writers. Characters in this novel include ˈˈThe Brass Monkey⸴ˈˈ ˈˈWee Willie Winkie⸴ˈˈ and Mary Pereira. Another character in this novel is known as Parvati-the-witch⸴ who has the same birthday as the protagonist. - ttddMidnight's Children
Name these works of literature by Eastern Hemisphere writers. Al-Sayyid al-Jawad's family is depicted in this 1950s literary collection⸴ which includes a work entitled Palace of Desire. - ttddCairo Trilogy [accept al-Thulatiyah (thoo-LAH-tee-yah)]
Name these works of literature by Eastern Hemisphere writers. This book states ˈˈpity that the stags cannot teach the turtles swiftnessˈˈ in a section about how ˈˈevil is good tortured by its own hunger and thirst.ˈˈ The success of this book led its author to follow it up with a book about the title figure's ˈˈgarden.ˈˈ The title character of this work states ˈˈyou shall be together when the white wings of death scatter your daysˈˈ in a section called ˈˈMarriage.ˈˈ The opening section of this 1923 work⸴ which is entitled ˈˈThe Coming of the Ship⸴ˈˈ introduces the protagonist Almustafa (ahl-moo-STAH-fuh) of Orphalese (or-fuh-LEEZ)⸴ who gives inspirational advice to the people of Lebanon. Name this book of 26 ˈˈpoetic essaysˈˈ by Kahlil Gibran (kah-LEEL zhee-BRAHN). - ttddThe Prophet U.S. Government/Economics: Name these political parties.
Name these winners of the Nobel Prize. ˈˈJana Gana Manaˈˈ is a national anthem written by this author⸴ who also wrote the ˈˈSong Offeringsˈˈ in the poetry collection Gitanjali (ghee-tan-JAH-lee). - ttddRabindranath Tagore (ruh-BIN-druh-naht tuh-GOR)
Name these winners of the Nobel Prize. This female Chilean poet is perhaps best known for such works as ˈˈDesolacionˈˈ (day-soh-lah-see-OHN) and ˈˈThe Sonnets of Death.ˈˈ - ttddGabriela Mistral (mee-STRAHL) [or Lucila de Maria del Perpetuo Socorro Godoy Alcayaga]
Name these winners of the Nobel Prize. In one novel by this author⸴ Kogito listens to a series of audiotapes to discover why his friend⸴ a filmmaker⸴ has committed suicide. This author of the 2000 novel The Changeling wrote a novel in which a composer named D is haunted by his dead son⸴ who may be the title creature. In another work⸴ this author of Aghwee the Sky Monster wrote about a man named Bird who worries that the birth of his son will derail his dream to visit Africa. In another of his novels⸴ Mitsusaburo abandons his mentally challenged son in a hospital. A Personal Matter and The Silent Cry were written by what 1994 Nobel laureate from Japan? - ttddKenzaburo Oe (ken-zah-boo-roh oh-ay) [accept names in either order] U.S. Government/Economics: Give the following related to presidential programs or policies.
Questions in this category will involve works of fiction about foods. Puerto Rican writer Giannina Braschi⸴ who authored the novel United States of Banana⸴ also authored Yo-Yo Boing!⸴ which is considered to be the first novel written in this so-called language sometimes known as Inglanol. - ttddSpanglish
Questions in this category will involve works of fiction about foods. The novel The Green Pope⸴ which depicts the rise and fall of the United Fruit Company⸴ was written by Miguel Angel Asturias (mee-GEL ahn-HEL uh-STUR-ee-us)⸴ who is a writer from this country. - ttddRepublic of Guatemala [or Republica de Guatemala]
Questions in this category will involve works of fiction about foods. A novel from this country whose chapters open with various recipes ends with the protagonist eating candles⸴ which kill her when they are lit. Another writer from this country included the image of a ˈˈwillow of crystal⸴ a poplar of waterˈˈ at both the beginning and end of a 584 line poem that is structured like a calendar. Like Water for Chocolate and ˈˈSunstoneˈˈ are two works of literature from this country⸴ which also produced a work that takes place on the deathbed of Artemio Cruz. The history of this country is the subject of the book Labyrinth of Solitude. Name this Spanish-speaking country whose writers include Laura Esquivel (ESS-kee-vel)⸴ Carlos Fuentes (FWAYN-tayss)⸴ and Octavio Paz (pahz). - ttddMexico [or United Mexican States or Estados Unidos Mexicanos] U.S. Government/Economics: Answer the following about the economic factors of production.
Give the following related to labyrinths mentioned in works of literature. ˈˈThe Day of the Deadˈˈ is an essay in The Labyrinth of Solitude⸴ which was written by what Mexican author? - ttddOctavio Paz Lozano
Give the following related to labyrinths mentioned in works of literature. ˈˈPierre Menard⸴ Author of the Quixote (kee-HO-tay)ˈˈ is a short story that appears in Labyrinths⸴ which was written by what Argentine master of the short story? - ttddJorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges
Give the following related to labyrinths mentioned in works of literature. A poet from this country who authored Heavensgate also wrote the collection Labyrinths⸴ which features his poem ˈˈA Path of Thunder.ˈˈ Another author from this country reimagined the Wedding of Cana in his adaptation of Euripides' (YUR-ip-uh-deez-iz) The Bacchae (BAH-ˈˈkeyˈˈ). That author from this country wrote about Simon Pilkings interrupting Elesin's (ELL-uh-sinz) ritual suicide. Another work by that author from this nation is about the love between Sidi (SEE-dee) and Lakunle (LUH-koon-lay). Those works from this nations are Death and the King's Horseman and The Lion and the Jewel. Christopher Okigbo (OH-kig-boh) and Wole Soyinka (woll-AY soy-ING-kuh) are both natives of this African country which was also the birthplace of Chinua Achebe (uh-CHAY-bay). - ttddFederal Republic of Nigeria
Name the following figures that are featured in William Shakespeare plays. The love god Venus pursues a beautiful⸴ mythical youth with what name in a long poem by William Shakespeare? - ttddAdonis [accept Venus and Adonis]
Name the following figures that are featured in William Shakespeare plays. What kind of bird is paired with the turtledove in a poem by William Shakespeare about the virtues of marriage? In a 1953 novel⸴ this bird is compared to mankind during a discussion between Granger and Guy Montag. - ttddphoenix [accept The Phoenix and the Turtle]
Name the following figures that are featured in William Shakespeare plays. A speech about this Shakespeare character notes that the ˈˈvilest things become themselves in [this character]ˈˈ and ˈˈholy priests bless...when [this character] is riggish.ˈˈ A George Bernard Shaw play named for this character features a scene in which this figure is rolled up into a carpet. In a Shakespeare play⸴ the words ˈˈAge cannot wither her⸴ nor custom stale her infinite varietyˈˈ were delivered in a speech about this character given by Enobarbus. In that play⸴ this title character commits suicide with an asp. What woman was the subject of a William Shakespeare play written about this Egyptian queen and her lover Mark Antony? - ttddCleopatra
Give the following related to the mentioning of seasons in literature. What author imagined ˈˈDiana [that] haunts the forest shadeˈˈ in his poem ˈˈSummerˈˈ? He also satirized the doggerel of Lewis Theobald in The Dunciad (DUN-see-ad). - ttddAlexander Pope
Give the following related to the mentioning of seasons in literature. What 1819 poem⸴ which was written by the author of the unfinished poem The Triumph of Life⸴ ends with the seasonally-inspired line ˈˈIf Winter comes⸴ can Spring be far behindˈˈ? - ttddˈˈOde to the West Windˈˈ
Give the following related to the mentioning of seasons in literature. A poem by this author named for a season describes a figure ˈˈsitting careless on a granary floorˈˈ and is addressed to a ˈˈSeason of mists and mellow fruitfulness.ˈˈ This author addresses ˈˈHappy⸴ Happy boughsˈˈ in another poem which asks ˈˈwho are these coming to the sacrifice?ˈˈ. That ekphrasis (eck-FRAH-sis) by this author describes a certain artwork that is ˈˈbrede (ˈˈbreedˈˈ) of marble men and maidens overwrought with forest branches.ˈˈ That poem by this man ends with the line ˈˈBeauty is truth⸴ truth beauty.ˈˈ Name this English poet who authored ˈˈTo Autumnˈˈ and ˈˈOde on a Grecian Urn.ˈˈ - ttddJohn Keats
Questions in this category will deal with the Elizabethan playwright Christopher Marlowe. George Chapman finished what incomplete poem by Christopher Marlowe⸴ which is about a young man of Abydos who swims across the Hellespont to see his lover? - ttddˈˈHero and Leanderˈˈ
Questions in this category will deal with the Elizabethan playwright Christopher Marlowe. Christopher Marlowe also wrote a play in two parts about what Asian emperor who⸴ among other things⸴ dispatches Mycetes (ˈˈmyˈˈ-SEE-teez) and forces Princess Zenocrate (zeh-NOK-ruh-tay) to be his wife? - ttddTamerlane or Emir Timur the Lame [or Tarmashirin Khan Barlas or Timur Beg Gurkhani; accept Tamburlaine the Great]
Questions in this category will deal with the Elizabethan playwright Christopher Marlowe. This novelist imagined Christopher Marlowe as a homosexual spy who exposes the Babington Plot in A Dead Man in Deptford. The life story of Kenneth Toomey is the subject of this author's literary masterpiece⸴ Earthly Powers. The protagonist of one of his novels visits a public library to learn of a way to commit suicide painlessly. After killing the Cat Lady⸴ the protagonist of that novel by this man undergoes a form of aversion therapy that makes Beethoven's 9th Symphony unlistenable for him; that treatment is called the Ludovico technique. Name this English novelist who wrote about Alex and his ˈˈdroogsˈˈ in A Clockwork Orange. - ttddJohn Anthony Burgess Wilson
Name these authors who had works inspired by mythology. What author of the poem ˈˈUnder Ben Bulbenˈˈ wrote about the mythological king Goll Mac Morna in his poem ˈˈThe Madness of King Gollˈˈ? He wrote about Greek mythology in his poem ˈˈLeda and the Swan.ˈˈ - ttddWilliam Butler Yeats
Name these authors who had works inspired by mythology. What author wrote about a titan in his poem Prometheus but is better known for The Vision of Judgment and Childe Harold's Pilgrimage? - ttddGeorge Gordon Noel⸴ Lord Byron [accept any underlined name]
Name these authors who had works inspired by mythology. This poet wrote about a mythological figure that ˈˈall saints...and sober menˈˈ revile; that poem appears in a ˈˈhistorical grammar of poetic myth.ˈˈ The soldier Decebalus (DEH-seh-ball-uss) narrates this author's novel about the life of Christ titled King Jesus. In another of his novels⸴ Asinius Pollio (uh-SIN-ee-uss POLL-ee-oh) tells the title character to play the fool to survive. That work by this author of The White Goddess ends with the assassination of Caligula (cuh-LIG- ˈˈyouˈˈ-luh) and the title character being discovered behind a curtain and made emperor by the Praetorian Guard. Name this English poet and novelist who wrote I⸴ Claudius. - ttddRobert von Ranke Graves
Name these English authors. Cranford and Mary Barton are novels by what 19th century female author of the Victorian age? - ttddElizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell [or Elizabeth Stevenson]
Name these English authors. The poem The Lark Ascending was written by this other Victorian author of the poetry collection Modern Love. His best known novel is perhaps The Egoist. - ttddGeorge Meredith
Name these English authors. This novelist wrote about a colonel who marries his foster-mother Rachel and meets Joseph Addison and Richard Steele in The History of Henry Esmond. In another novel by this author⸴ a woman becomes the favorite of the Marquis of Steyne (stine). In that novel by this author⸴ which opens at Miss Pinkerton's Academy⸴ William Dobbin defends the name of George Osborne⸴ who dies in battle. That novel by this author depicts English society during the Napoleonic era and juxtaposes the life of Amelia Sedley with Becky Sharp. Name this Victorian author of Vanity Fair. - ttddWilliam Makepeace Thackeray
Answers to these questions will be winners of the Nobel Prize. What English author won the Nobel Prize in 1932⸴ largely for works such as In Chancery⸴ which comprise his massive sequence about the Forsyte (FOR-ˈˈsightˈˈ) family? - ttddJohn Galsworthy
Answers to these questions will be winners of the Nobel Prize. What Nobel Laureate of Australian descent wrote Riders in the Chariot⸴ in addition to another novel about a German traveler who explores the heart of Australia called Voss? - ttddPatrick Victor Martindale White
Answers to these questions will be winners of the Nobel Prize. One work by this Nobel Laureate includes a character who memorably states ˈˈThey give birth astride of a grave⸴ the light gleams an instant⸴ then it's night once more!ˈˈ When that character created by this author reappears later in the work⸴ his leash is much shorter and he is now blind. Another play by this author centers on the crippled and blind Hamm⸴ who uses a whistle to beckon his servant Clov. This author's best known play is set on a country road near a large tree and features one of the protagonists discussing the difficulty of removing boots from his feet. What Irish author of Endgame wrote about Lucky and Pozzo coming across Vladimir and Estragon in a ˈˈtragicomedy in two actsˈˈ titled Waiting for Godot? - ttddSamuel Barclay Beckett
Name these Nobel Prize-winning authors. The 1928 Nobel Prize was awarded to this Norwegian female author perhaps best known for the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy. - ttddSigrid Undset
Name these Nobel Prize-winning authors. The 1955 Nobel Prize was awarded to this Icelandic author of such novels as The Fish Can Sing⸴ Independent People⸴ and Christianity at the Glacier. - ttddHalldor Kiljan Laxness (HAHL-torrr ˈˈLOCKSˈˈ-ness)
Name these Nobel Prize-winning authors. This author wrote a short story in which an engineer and a chauffeur named Socrates meet the townspeople of Iguape (ee-GWAH-pay)⸴ Brazil. That story⸴ ˈˈThe Growing Stoneˈˈ⸴ appears in his collection Exile and the Kingdom. One novel by this author features two sermons delivered by Father Paneloux (PAWN-ih-loo); that novel by this author opens with thousands of rats dying in the streets of Oran and is narrated by Dr. Bernard Rieux (ree-OH). In another novel written by this author⸴ Salamano routinely mercilessly beats his dog; that novel by this man opens with the words ˈˈMother died todayˈˈ being spoken by Meursault (ˈˈmareˈˈ-SO)⸴ who will be executed for shooting the Arab. Name this Algerian-born French author of The Plague and The Stranger. - ttddAlbert Camus (al-ˈˈBEARˈˈ kah-MOO)
Name the following authors who incorporated philosophy into their works. What author of the philosophical treatise Metaphysics as A Guide to Morals is better known for her novels about Jake Donoghue (DAWN-uh-hew) and Charles Arrowby titled Under the Net and The Sea⸴ The Sea? - ttddDame Jean Iris Murdoch
Name the following authors who incorporated philosophy into their works. What author of the philosophical treatise An Enquiry Concerning Political Justice wrote the novel Caleb Williams to supplement its ideas? - ttddWilliam Godwin
Name the following authors who incorporated philosophy into their works. This author wrote about the study of mysticism in his work The Perennial Philosophy. Dr. Obispo and Jo Stoyte meet the immortal Fifth Earl of Gonister in a novel by this author which takes its title from the poem ˈˈTithonus.ˈˈ Another of his novels features a fictional movie called Three Weeks in a Helicopter⸴ which is watched by the protagonist and Lenina. In that novel by this man⸴ Mustapha Mond and John the Savage have a discussion about the nature of society⸴ which is divided between alphas⸴ betas⸴ gammas⸴ deltas⸴ and epsilons. The novel After Many a Summer Dies the Swan was written by what British author who used the year 632 After Ford as the setting for his novel Brave New World. - ttddAldous Leonard Huxley
Name these British authors who wrote plays. What 20th century British playwright⸴ the author of Blithe Spirit⸴ also penned the song ˈˈMad Dogs and Englishmenˈˈ? - ttddSir Noël Peirce Coward
Name these British authors who wrote plays. What other 20th century British playwright⸴ the author of The Royal Hunt of the Sun⸴ wrote about a child who defaces horses in Equus? - ttddSir Peter Levin Shaffer
Name these British authors who wrote plays. This author's most notable play features Utah Watkins⸴ who counts sheep that resemble his wife⸴ and a barman named Sinbad Sailors. That work⸴ whose most iconic character is Captain Cat⸴ is set in the town of Llareggub (LAIR-uh- gub) and is a ˈˈplay for voices.ˈˈ A poem by this writer features ˈˈgrave men⸴ near death⸴ who see with blinding sightˈˈ as well as ˈˈblind eyes [that] could blaze like meteors and be gay.ˈˈ That poem by this author urges the speaker to ˈˈRage⸴ rage against the dying of the light.ˈˈ The play Under Milk Wood was written by what Welsh author who wrote the villanelle (vill-uh-NELL) ˈˈDo not go gentle into that good nightˈˈ? - ttddDylan Marlais Thomas
Name the following related to classical music in literature. Nocturnes⸴ a series of five short stories inspired by classical music⸴ is a recent work by what Japanese-British author who also wrote The Remains of the Day? - ttddKazuo Ishiguro
Name the following related to classical music in literature. A composer named Clive Linley and Vernon Halliday are friends in Amsterdam⸴ a novel by what British author of Saturday and Atonement? - ttddIan Russell McEwan
Name the following related to classical music in literature. Friedrich Delius provided the inspiration for the composer Vyvyan (ˈˈVivianˈˈ) Ayrs⸴ who appears in one part of this novel that consists of letters from Zeldelghem (ZEL-dull-gehm). During a brownout⸴ Rufus Sixsmith meets with a woman who investigates a nuclear power plant in Buenas Yerbas. This novel includes ˈˈThe Ghastly Ordeal of Timothy Cavendishˈˈ and a section in which Sonmi~451 leads a revolt against the world order. Name this novel consisting of six nested stories⸴ such as ˈˈThe Pacific Journal Adam Ewingˈˈ⸴ which was written by David Mitchell and turned into the world's most expensive indie film. - ttddCloud Atlas
World Literature: Answer these questions about Paradise Lost. Paradise Lost was written by what English poet? - ttddJohn Milton
World Literature: Answer these questions about Paradise Lost. One section of Paradise Lost concerns the expulsion of Adam and Eve from what location? - ttddThe Garden of Eden
World Literature: Answer these questions about Paradise Lost. What character from Paradise Lost says that it is ''better to reign in hell than serve in heaven''? - ttddSatan (Accept Lucifer, but no other variations such as ''the devil'')
World Literature: Answer these questions about a series of novels. The Pevensie children are introduced in what first novel in The Chronicles of Narnia series? - ttddThe Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe
World Literature: Answer these questions about a series of novels. Team A:The Chronicles of Narnia was written by what British author? - ttddC.S. Lewis
World Literature: Answer these questions about a series of novels. A final showdown between the Calormenes and King Tirian occurs in what final novel in The Chronicles of Narnia series? - ttddThe Last Battle
World Literature: A boy wins a golden ticket to Willy Wonka's chocolate factory in what novel? - ttddCharlie and the Chocolate Factory
World Literature: Charlie and the Chocolate Factory was written by what author of James and the Giant Peach? - ttddRoald Dahl
World Literature: The title character develops a special relationship with Miss Honey in what other novel by Dahl about an extraordinary young girl? - ttddMatilda
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English story collection. The Miller and The Wife of Bath are among the pilgrims who tell a story in what collection of stories that was originally written in Middle English? - ttddThe Canterbury Tales
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English story collection. The Canterbury Tales is a work by English author who also wrote Troilus and Cressida and The Book of the Duchess? - ttddGeoffrey Chaucer
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English story collection. Arcite and Palamon fight over the hand of Emily in what first story from The Canterbury Tales? - ttdd''The Knight's Tale''
World Literature: Identify these characters from Bram Stoker's Dracula. The protagonist of Dracula is what solicitor from England whose fiancé is Mina Murray? - ttddJonathan Harker [accept either name]
World Literature: Identify these characters from Bram Stoker's Dracula. What character sees no issues with having three suitors and ends up dying with a stake through the heart? - ttddLucy Westenra [accept either name]
World Literature: Identify these characters from Bram Stoker's Dracula. This character dies at the end of the novel, after sacrificing himself so that the others can survive. Identify this suitor of Lucy, a cowboy from Texas. - ttddQuincey Morris [accept either name]
World Literature: Answer these questions about a South American author. In addition to writing Autumn of the Patriarch and The General and His Labyrinth, what Colombian author wrote about the murder of Santiago Nasser by the Vicario brothers in Chronicle of a Death Foretold? - ttddGabriel Garcia Marquez (Prompt on ''Marquez''; do not accept ''Marquez'' alone)
World Literature: Answer these questions about a South American author. In this other Garcia Marquez work, Florentino Ariza loves Fermina Daza, who eventually marries Juvenal Urbino due to a vow that she will marry before the age of 21. - ttddLove in the Time of Cholera
World Literature: Answer these questions about a South American author. Created by Garcia Marquez in his novel Leaf Storm, this town would make another appearance in his most famous novel. Identify this fictional city, home to the Buendia family in One Hundred Years of Solitude. - ttddMacondo
World Literature: What Portuguese author wrote The Stone Raft, where the Iberian Peninsula breaks off from Europe, and also featured Tertuliano and Clara in The Double? - ttddJose de Saramago
World Literature: In this novel by Jose Saramago, the King of Ward 3 is eventually killed by The Doctor's wife, who is the only one not stricken with the title illness. Identify this novel that follows a few inmates in a quarantined asylum and the town surrounding it. - ttddBlindness
World Literature: This author wrote a trilogy containing Yerma and The House of Bernarda Alba. Identify this author of the Rural Trilogy who wrote about The Bride, The Groom, Death, the Moon, and Leonardo Felix in Blood Wedding? - ttddFederico Garcia Lorca
World Literature: In one of this man's novels, Bev Shaw fatally injected animals at her clinic, and in another, Susan Barton joins Friday and Cruso before having Foe write her story. Identify this South African author of Life and Times of Michael K, and Waiting for the Barbarians. - ttddJ.M. Coetzee
World Literature: In one of this author's works, Jacob Todd writes about Joaquin Murrieta, and in another novel, a girl makes imitation grenades from Universal Matter. Name this female, Chilean-American novelist, author of The House of the Spirits. - ttddIsabel Allende
World Literature: This man wrote one novel about Negotiations between Matthias Erzberger and Ferdinand Foch at Versailles, and another about the strangulation of Victor Henneker on an Antarctic expedition. He also describes the ''Improbable Birth of'' his home country, in ''A Commonwealth of Thieves.'' Name this author, winner of the 1982 Booker Prize, for his work, Schindler's Ark. - ttddThomas Keneally
World Literature: Identify the following Latin American authors. This Chilean poet wrote the collection Twenty Love Poems and A Song of Despair and included ''The Heights of Macchu Picchu'' in his Canto General. - ttddPablo Neruda
World Literature: Identify the following Latin American authors. This Chilean author's novels include Eva Luna and a novel about the clairvoyant members of the Trueba family, The House of the Spirits. - ttddIsabel Allende
World Literature: Identify the following Latin American authors. This Colombian wrote about Ursula, Jose, Aureliano, and all the other Buendias living in Macondo in his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude. - ttddGabriel Garcia Marquez
World Literature: Identify these Harry Potter characters. This character participated in a duel that led to the accidental death of his sister Ariana. What character was Hogwarts Headmaster for more than 40 years, including during Tom Riddle and Harry Potter's years at Hogwarts? - ttddAlbus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore
World Literature: Identify these Harry Potter characters. This character has two children, Hugo and Rose. Earlier in her life she is petrified after seeing the Basilisk in a mirror in the Restricted Section of the Library. What character is a muggle-born friend of Harry Potter and Ron Weasley? - ttddHermione Granger (accept either)
World Literature: Identify these Harry Potter characters. This character was placed at Hogwarts under Educational Decree Number Twenty-Two, and while working there disbanded the Quidditch teams. This woman forced Harry to write ''I must not tell lies'' with a Blood Quill as punishment for his contradicting her. Who is this Madame Undersecretary, a Ministry worker who often wears pink? - ttddDolores Umbridge (accept either)
World Literature: Identify these authors with something in common. What author of Terra Nostra and Aura is best known for writing The Death of Artemio Cruz and The Old Gringo? - ttddCarlos Fuentes
World Literature: Identify these authors with something in common. What author wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude as well as a 584 line poem about the Aztec calendar entitled ''Sunstone''? - ttddOctavio Paz
World Literature: Identify these authors with something in common. In addition to writing Malinche and The Law of Love, this author wrote one novel in which each chapter begins with a recipe. Identify this author who wrote about star-crossed lovers Tita and Pedro in Like Water for Chocolate. - ttddLaura Esquivel
World Literature: Identify these works of literature that were originally written in German. Josef K., the protagonist of what Franz Kafka novella screams ''like a dog'' when he is stabbed to death by two men after being found guilty of an unstated crime? - ttddThe Trial
World Literature: Identify these works of literature that were originally written in German. Gregor Samsa awakens one morning to find himself transformed into an insect in what other novella by Franz Kafka? - ttddThe Metamorphosis
World Literature: Identify these works of literature that were originally written in German. The title object is the most treasured possession of Oskar Matzerath in what novel by Gunter Grass? - ttddThe Tin Drum
World Literature: Identify these female characters from The Odyssey. What wife of Odysseus tricks her suitors into waiting to fight for her hand in marriage by daily weaving and unweaving a burial shroud for her father-in-law? - ttddPenelope
World Literature: Identify these female characters from The Odyssey. What witch kept Odysseus and his men on her island for one year after turning half of Odysseus's men into pigs? - ttddCirce
World Literature: Identify these female characters from The Odyssey. What six-headed monster that stood opposite a whirlpool in a narrow strait ate many of Odysseus's men as they tried to pass? - ttddScylla
World Literature: Identify the following Aesop Fables given a description. What fable documents a race between two animals with the lesson of ''slow and steady wins the race''? - ttddThe Tortoise and the Hare
World Literature: Identify the following Aesop Fables given a description. What fable documents the story of a child who laughs at the villagers when he falsely calls for help leading to them ignoring him when his sheep are actually in danger? - ttddThe Boy Who Cried Wolf
World Literature: Identify the following Aesop Fables given a description. What fable tells of a large cat who releases a smaller creature who, years later, is able to return the kindness by chewing the cat free of the net he is caught in? - ttddThe Lion and the Mouse
World Literature: Identify these characters from Greek mythology. What Gorgon woman was beheaded by Perseus, who had to look only at her reflection in a shield given to him by Athena? - ttddMedusa
World Literature: Identify these characters from Greek mythology. What three-headed dog guards the entrance to the underworld and was overpowered by Heracles in his 12th labor? - ttddCerberus
World Literature: Identify these characters from Greek mythology. What leader of the Argonauts and husband of Medea retrieved the Golden Fleece from Colchis? - ttddJason
World Literature: Identify these works of German literature. Joseph Knecht attempts to become Magister Ludi by mastering the title activity in what novel by Hermann Hesse? - ttddThe Glass Bead Game
World Literature: Identify these works of German literature. Joachim Malkhe disappears near the end of World War II in what novel by Gunter Grass that was the second book in his Danzig Trilogy? - ttddCat and Mouse
World Literature: Identify these works of German literature. The protagonist joins the military after leaving a Swiss Sanatorium in what novel about Hans Castorp by Thomas Mann? - ttddThe Magic Mountain
World Literature: Identify these fictional detectives. Appearing in such novels as The Murder in the Vicarage and A Pocket Full of Rye, what elderly female detective was created by Agatha Christie? - ttddMiss Jane Marple
World Literature: Identify these fictional detectives. Appearing in such novels as Death on the Nile and Murder on the Orient Express, what fictional Belgian detective was also created by Agatha Christie? - ttddHercule Poirot
World Literature: Identify these fictional detectives. Appearing in the novel The Maltese Falcon, what fictional detective was created by author Dashiell Hammett? - ttddSam Spade
World Literature: Answer these questions about the novel All Quiet on the Western Front. It was written by what German author? - ttddErich Maria Remarque
World Literature: Answer these questions about the novel All Quiet on the Western Front. The novel is set during what conflict? - ttddWorld War I
World Literature: Answer these questions about the novel All Quiet on the Western Front. What protagonist of the novel dies from a gunshot wound at the end of the novel after witnessing the death of his friend Kat? - ttddPaul Baumer (accept either name)
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. What German author won the 1946 Nobel Prize in Literature for novels such as Steppenwolf and The Glass Bead Game? - ttddHerman Hesse
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. What German author won the 1999 Nobel Prize in Literature for novels such as Cat and Mouse and Dog Years, part of his Danzig Trilogy? - ttddGunter Grass
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. The central character in this novel decides to never grow up after being born with the perception of an adult. Identify this novel about Oskar Matzerath, the first work in Gunter Grass's Danzig Trilogy. - ttddThe Tin Drum
World Literature: Answer these questions about Oscar Wilde. Basil Hallward creates the title object, which ages in place of its subject, in what novel by Oscar Wilde? - ttddThe Picture of Dorian Gray
World Literature: Answer these questions about Oscar Wilde. Jack Worthing proposes to Gwendolen Fairfax in what Oscar Wilde novel that sees Jack living in the country while using the title alias? - ttddThe Importance of Being Earnest
World Literature: Answer these questions about Oscar Wilde. This Wilde work discusses the execution of Charles Wooldridge, whom Wilde had met at the title location. Identify this poem by Wilde written while he was imprisoned in the title location. - ttddThe Ballad of Reading Gaol (pronounced "jail")
World Literature: Identify these works of ancient literature. What ancient Greek author wrote the plays Seven Against Thebes and The Oresteia? - ttddAeschylus
World Literature: Identify these works of ancient literature. What Greek comic playwright wrote The Frogs, The Birds, and Lysistrata? - ttddAristophanes
World Literature: Identify these works of ancient literature. This playwright wrote about the wife of Heracles in Women of Trachis. Identify this ancient Greek playwright of Electra, Antigone, and Oedipus the King. - ttddSophocles
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. What author of "Tintern Abbey" and "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" collaborated on the collection Lyrical Ballads? - ttddWilliam Wordsworth
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. Wordsworth collaborated on Lyrical Ballads with what author of "Kubla Khan" and "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"? - ttddSamuel Taylor Coleridge
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. This author died at the age of 36 after fighting against the Ottoman Empire in the Greek Wars of Independence. Identify this author of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage who wrote an epic poem about the womanizer Don Juan. - ttddLord Byron
World Literature: Answer these questions about C.S. Lewis. What novel by C.S. Lewis was the first novel in the Chronicles of Narnia series? - ttddThe Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe
World Literature: Answer these questions about C.S. Lewis. What lion who features in the Chronicles of Narnia is the true king of Narnia who sacrifices himself to save Edmund Pevensie? - ttddAslan
World Literature: Answer these questions about C.S. Lewis. The protagonist of this novel serves as an administrator in the bureaucracy of hell where he works with his nephew Wormwood. Identify this CS Lewis novel that addresses the issues of the Christian religion through a series of 31 letters. - ttddThe Screwtape Letters
World Literature: Answer these questions the works of French authors. Edmund Dantes assumes a series of aliases, including Sinbad the Sailor and the title distinction in what novel by Alexandre Dumas? - ttddThe Count of Monte Cristo
World Literature: Answer these questions the works of French authors. Pierre Annorax is invited on an expedition to search for a mysterious creature with Ned Land in what novel by Jules Verne? - ttdd20,000 Leagues Under the Sea
World Literature: Answer these questions the works of French authors. The central action of this novel centers on a wager made by members of the Reform Club. The central figure fires his valet James Forster and replaces him with a man named Passepartout. Identify this novel about Phileas Fogg, a novel by Jules Verne about the title circumnavigation. - ttddAround the World in 80 Days
World Literature: Answer these questions about European poetry. The line "hail to thee, blithe spirit" appears in what Percy Shelley poem that is addressed to a bird? - ttdd"To a Skylark"
World Literature: Answer these questions about European poetry. What other Shelley poem about the aforementioned Ramses the Great describes a "traveller from an antique land" who had two "trunkless legs of stone"? - ttdd"Ozymandias"
World Literature: Answer these questions about European poetry. The title entity of this poem is described as a "destroyer and preserver" and is described as the "breath of autumn's being". The line "if winter comes, can spring be far behind" appears in what Shelley poem that is addressed to a meteorological phenomenon? - ttdd"Ode to the West Wind"
World Literature: Given these works of literature, identify the country in which they were written. Dream of the Red Chamber, Water Margin, Journey to the West - ttddChina
World Literature: Given these works of literature, identify the country in which they were written. Anna Karenina, The Gulag Archipelago, The Idiot - ttddRussia
World Literature: Given these works of literature, identify the country in which they were written. Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street, which comprise Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo Trilogy. - ttddEgypt
World Literature: Answer these questions about British poetry. What English poet included "To an Athlete, Dying Young" in his poetry collection entitled A Shropshire Lad? - ttddA.E. Housman
World Literature: Answer these questions about British poetry. What English poet of "Anthem for Doomed Youth" is best known for his World War I poem "Dulce et Decorum Est"? - ttddWilfred Owen
World Literature: Answer these questions about British poetry. This author described his conversion to Catholicism in his work The Hind and the Panther and parodied Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra in his work All for Love. Identify this author who wrote the poem "Mac Flecknoe" and described London in the year 1666 in his poem "Annus Mirabilis". - ttddJohn Dryden
World Literature: Answer these questions about satirist Jonathan Swift. Brothers Peter, Martin, and Jack represent branches of Christianity in the west in what satire by Jonathan Swift? - ttddTale of a Tub
World Literature: Answer these questions about satirist Jonathan Swift. What short satire that was included as the introduction to Tale of a Tub depicts a conflict between authors and their works as they struggle to not be replaced in the King's Library? - ttddThe Battle of the Books
World Literature: Answer these questions about satirist Jonathan Swift. In this satire, Swift suggested that the central figures could be served stewed, roasted, baked, or boiled. Swift suggested that the poor should sell their children as food to the wealthy in what 1729 satire that was published anonymously? - ttddA Modest Proposal
World Literature: What British author of Maurice and Howard's End wrote of a character accused of rape in the Marabar Caves in his best-known novel? - ttddEM Forster
World Literature: What novel by Forster sees Dr. Aziz accused of raping Adela Quested at the Marabar Caves? - ttddA Passage to India
World Literature: This novel opens with the protagonist complaining to Charlotte Bartlett about accommodations at the Pension Bertolini. The protagonist of this novel spurns the request of Cecil Vyse to elope with George Emerson. Identify this EM Forster novel about Lucy Honeychurch whose apartment lacks the title feature with respect to the Arno River. - ttddA Room with a View
World Literature: Identify these Enlightenment thinkers. What Enlightenment thinker compiled Enlightenment thought into his best known work entitled Encyclopedia? - ttddDenis Diderot
World Literature: Identify these Enlightenment thinkers. What Enlightenment thinker included sections entitled "Of the Understanding", "Of the Passions" and "Of Morals" in his A Treatise of Human Nature? - ttddDavid Hume
World Literature: Identify these Enlightenment thinkers. This author mocked Europe from the perspective of travelers named Rica and Uzbek in his novel Persian Letters. His best known work stated that government should be divided into legislative, executive and judicial branches. Identify this proponent of the separation of powers of wrote The Spirit of the Laws. - ttddBaron de Montesquieu
World Literature: Answer these questions about Shakespeare's Macbeth. What character is traveling with Macbeth at the beginning of the play when they encounter the Three Witches? - ttddBanquo
World Literature: Answer these questions about Shakespeare's Macbeth. In order to fulfill the witches prophecy, Lady Macbeth convinces her husband to kill what king of Scotland? - ttddKing Duncan
World Literature: Answer these questions about Shakespeare's Macbeth. Although Macbeth is ultimately killed by Macduff, what son of King Duncan becomes the new king of Scotland following his death? - ttddMalcolm
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Shakespeare. One character gives the "friends, Romans, countrymen" speech in what Shakespearean play titled for a Roman leader? - ttddJulius Caesar
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Shakespeare. Ferdinand and Miranda fall in love in what Shakespeare play that features the spirit Ariel and is named for a title storm? - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of Shakespeare. In this play, Stephano and Balthazar are actually women in disguise. Portia gives the "quality of mercy" speech in this play while another character asks "hath not a Jew eyes". Antonio is sued for a "pound of flesh" by the Jewish moneylender Shylock in what Shakespearean comedy? - ttddThe Merchant of Venice
World Literature: Given a poetry collection, identify its author. Songs of Innocence and Experience. - ttddWilliam Blake
World Literature: Given a poetry collection, identify its author. What author collaborated with William Wordsworth on the collection Lyrical Ballads? - ttddSamuel Taylor Coleridge
World Literature: Given a poetry collection, identify its author. This author's best known poetry collection includes works entitled "The Litany of Satan" and "The Albatross". Better known poems in that collection by this author include "Death", "Wine" and "Spleen and Ideal". Identify this French symbolist poet of Les Fleurs de Mals. - ttddCharles Baudelaire
World Literature: Answer these questions about Scottish literature. What Scottish author wrote the novels Rob Roy, The Lady of the Lake, and Ivanhoe? - ttddSir Walter Scott
World Literature: Answer these questions about Scottish literature. What Scottish author wrote Kidnapped, Treasure Island, and Doctor Jekyll and Mr. Hyde? - ttddRobert Louis Stevenson
World Literature: Answer these questions about Scottish literature. This author wrote a poem about a man who sees the devil playing the bagpipes entitled "Tam O' Shanter". He wrote another poem that begins with the line "should auld acquaintance be forgot" that is sung annually on New Year's Eve. Identify this Scottish poet of "Auld Lang Syne", "To a Mouse" and "A Red, Red Rose". - ttddRobert Burns
World Literature: Identify these Mexican authors. What author wrote The Old Gringo and The Death of Artemio Cruz? - ttddCarlos Fuentes
World Literature: Identify these Mexican authors. What Mexican author of the poetry collection Sunstone included the poem "The Day of the Dead" in his collection The Labyrinth of Solitude? - ttddOctavio Paz
World Literature: Identify these Mexican authors. This author wrote the novels The Law of Love and Swift as Desire. In her best known novel, the protagonist is a talented cook who is in love with Pedro Muzquiz. Identify this Mexican author who wrote about Tita de la Garza in Like Water for Chocolate. - ttddLaura Esquivel
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature pertaining to World War I. Wilfred Owen wrote about a gas attack during the First World War in what poem whose Latin title comes from a work by Horace? - ttddDulce et Decorum Est
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature pertaining to World War I. Owen used the Petrarchan sonnet form for what other poem that was written to commemorate the loss of so many young soldiers during World War I? - ttdd"Anthem for Doomed Youth"
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature pertaining to World War I. The title location of this poem is "where the poppies blow, between the crosses, row on row." The author of this poem fought in the Second Battle of Ypres [Ē pruh] and titled the poem for the location where he buried his friend Alexis Helmer. Identify this poem often read of Memorial Day by Canadian author John McCrae. - ttddIn Flanders Fields
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. What British author of Point, Counterpoint is best known for writing the dystopian novel Brave New World? - ttddAldous Huxley
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. What British science fiction and fantasy author wrote The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy? - ttddDouglas Adams
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. This author documented his life in working class England in the nonfiction novel The Road to Wigen Pier and documented the Spanish Civil War in Homage to Catalonia. His best-known novels introduced Newspeak, Thought Police, and Big Brother. Identify this author of 1984 and Animal Farm. - ttddGeorge Orwell
World Literature: The voyages of an Englishman take him to a land where people are six inches tall and a land of giants among other places in what masterpiece of English literature? - ttddGulliver's Travels
World Literature: Gulliver's Travels was written by what author that also wrote A Modest Proposal? - ttddJonathan Swift
World Literature: One of the other places Gulliver ventures off to is the land of the Houyhnhnms (WHO-hin-hims), which are what type of animals that serve as the master of human-like beings? - ttddHorses
World Literature: Answer these questions about a French novelist. What French dramatist and novelist introduced the characters of Fantine and Inspector Javert in Les Miserables? - ttddVictor Hugo
World Literature: Answer these questions about a French novelist. What other Victor Hugo novel, adapted into an animated feature of the same name by Disney, centers around the title handicapped bell ringer, whose real name is Quasimodo? - ttddThe Hunchback of Notre Dame
World Literature: Answer these questions about a French novelist. Hugo wrote a play in 1869 titled for and centering on the life of what Grand Inquisitor of Spain during the Spanish Inquisition? - ttddTomas de Torquemada
World Literature: Identify these poems by Percy Shelley. "I met a traveler from an antique land" and "look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!" are both lines from what Percy Shelley poem about a "King of Kings?" - ttdd"Ozymandias"
World Literature: Identify these poems by Percy Shelley. The title object is described as, "thou breath of Autumn's being" in what Percy Shelley poem that closes, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" - ttdd"Ode to the West Wind"
World Literature: Identify these poems by Percy Shelley. Inspired by a walk Shelley took with his wife Mary in Italy, what poem opens, "Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!" and describes the title Avian as being from Heaven "or close to it?" - ttdd"To a Skylark"
World Literature: Identify these Charles Dickens novels. The title character is beaten by his stepfather Edward Murdstone and later lives with his aunt Betsey Trotwood in what Dickens novel? - ttddDavid Copperfield
World Literature: Identify these Charles Dickens novels. Madame Defarge knits the names of her enemies in what Dickens novel set during the French Revolution? - ttddA Tale of Two Cities
World Literature: Identify these Charles Dickens novels. The title character works with the pickpocket The Artful Dodger and the gang boss Fagin in what Dickens novel? - ttddOliver Twist
World Literature: Identify the following poetic forms. What type of poem has three unrhyming lines of five, seven, and five syllables? - ttddHaiku
World Literature: Identify the following poetic forms. What fourteen line type of poem can come in Shakespearean and Petrarchan types? - ttddSonnet
World Literature: Identify the following poetic forms. In what type of long narrative poem do heroic protagonists engage in an action of great mythic or historic significance? - ttddEpic
World Literature: Answer these questions about a Nobel Prize winning author. What Indian-born, British author won the Nobel Prize in Literature for works such as Kim and "The Man Who Would be King"? - ttddRudyard Kipling
World Literature: Answer these questions about a Nobel Prize winning author. Kipling is best known for writing what novel about a boy named Mowgli? - ttddThe Jungle Book
World Literature: Answer these questions about a Nobel Prize winning author. The title character is told "You're a better man than I am" in what Kipling poem about an English soldier in India? - ttdd"Gunga Din"
World Literature: Identify these novels by British author HG Wells. Martians attack earth in what novel by HG Wells that caused controversy when it was aired during a radio broadcast when many people believed that it was a real news event? - ttddThe War of the Worlds
World Literature: Identify these novels by British author HG Wells. A scientist journeys to the year 802,701 where he encounters the Eloi and Morlocks in what novel by HG Wells? - ttddThe Time Machine
World Literature: Identify these novels by British author HG Wells. Edward Prendick narrates what Wells novel that sees him arrive at the title location to find a group of human hybrids that were created via vivisection? - ttddThe Island of Doctor Moreau
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. What lengthy novel by Leo Tolstoy tells the story of Pierre Bezukhov during the French invasion of Russia during the Napoleonic Wars? - ttddWar and Peace
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. Raskolnikov murders an elderly pawnbroker in what novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky? - ttddCrime and Punishment
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. Fyodor Dostoyevsky also wrote what novel about Dmitri, Ivan, and Alexei, the sons of a man named Fyodor? - ttddThe Brothers Karamazov
World Literature: Answer these questions about a literary detective. 221B Baker Street is the address of what literary detective and companion of Dr. John Watson? - ttddSherlock Holmes
World Literature: Answer these questions about a literary detective. Sherlock Holmes was a character created by what British author? - ttddSir Arthur Conan Doyle
World Literature: Answer these questions about a literary detective. The title of this novel comes from a speech that Holmes makes to Watson regarding the nature of a murder investigation. Identify this first novel by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle that introduced the character of Sherlock Holmes. - ttddA Study in Scarlet
World Literature: Identify these poems by British authors. What poem by Matthew Arnold describes the title location where "ignorant armies clash by night"? - ttdd"Dover Beach"
World Literature: Identify these poems by British authors. What John Keats poem ends with the line "do I wake or sleep" after describing the author listening to the songs of the title creature? - ttdd"Ode to a Nightingale"
World Literature: Identify these poems by British authors. Percy Shelley asks "If Winter comes, can spring be far behind" in what poem addressed to a weather phenomenon? - ttdd"Ode to the West Wind"
World Literature: Given a work of literature, identify the language in which it was originally written. The Magic Mountain - ttddGerman
World Literature: Given a work of literature, identify the language in which it was originally written. The Library of Babel - ttddSpanish
World Literature: Given a work of literature, identify the language in which it was originally written. The Rubaiyat - ttddPersian
World Literature: Answer these questions about Gulliver's Travels. What island that Gulliver visits has inhabitants who are all less than six inches tall? - ttddLilliput
World Literature: Answer these questions about Gulliver's Travels. After visiting Lilliput, Gulliver visits what island where he meets a seventy-two foot tall farmer, whose stride is ten feet long? - ttddBrobdingnag
World Literature: Answer these questions about Gulliver's Travels. Captain Pedro de Mendez is one of these, and Gulliver initially dismisses them as only having a semblance of reason. Living on the same island as the Houyhnhnms, is what group that are human beings in their base form? - ttddYahoos
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. Viola is shipwrecked off the coast of Illyria and believes her twin brother Sebastian to be dead in what Shakespearean comedy? - ttddTwelfth Night
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. The constable Dogberry appears in what Shakespearean comedy about the love between Beatrice and Benedick? - ttddMuch Ado About Nothing
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. A man and his servant arrive on the island of Ephesus to find their long-lost twin brothers in what Shakespearean farce about Antipholus and Dromio? - ttddThe Comedy of Errors
World Literature: The death of Old Major prompts a struggle for power in what novel that reflects events leading up to the Russian Revolution? - ttddAnimal Farm
World Literature: Animal Farm was written by what British author? - ttddGeorge Orwell
World Literature: Napoleon chases away what other pig in Animal Farm after he announces plans to build a windmill? - ttddSnowball
World Literature: Identify the following ghosts who can be found haunting Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. This Gryffindor house ghost's head is only attached by a piece of skin, and he was a wizard in the royal court before he died. - ttddNearly Headless Nick or Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington [prompt on partial
World Literature: Identify the following ghosts who can be found haunting Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. answer] - ttddTeam A: This Hogwarts ghost is in constant conflict with Filch, as he causes trouble and loves getting Hogwarts students into trouble.
World Literature: Identify the following ghosts who can be found haunting Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Peeves - ttddToss-up: This Slytherin house ghost is the only one who can control Peeves, and Harry poses as him to get rid of Peeves while under the invisibility cloak.
World Literature: Answer these questions about a work of Spanish literature. The title character of what novel fights windmills along his squire Sancho Panza and falls in love with the beautiful Dulcinea? - ttddDon Quixote
World Literature: Answer these questions about a work of Spanish literature. Don Quixote was written by what Spanish author of La Galatea? - ttddMiguel de Cervantes
World Literature: Answer these questions about a work of Spanish literature. This name is used by John Steinbeck as the name of his van in the aforementioned Travels with Charley. Don Quixote took four days to name what faithful horse that accompanies Don Quixote on many of his adventures? - ttddRocinante
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean characters. At the beginning of Hamlet, what character, Hamlet's uncle, is the King of Denmark? - ttddClaudius
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean characters. In Hamlet, what woman is currently serving as Queen? She is also Hamlet's mother. - ttddGertrude
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean characters. This character says she would kill someone if they did not look like her father, and she calls on evil spirits to "unsex me here." Washing her hands while sleepwalking and crying "Out, damn'd spot!" is what character who convinces her husband to kill King Duncan? - ttddLady Macbeth
World Literature: Identify these ancient authors. What ancient author wrote Oedipus Rex and Oedipus at Colonnus? - ttddSophocles
World Literature: Identify these ancient authors. What other ancient Greek author wrote The Iliad and The Odyssey? - ttddHomer
World Literature: Identify these ancient authors. What Athenian comic playwright wrote The Birds, The Clouds, and Lysistrata? - ttddAristophanes
World Literature: Answer these questions about Italian literature. Seven women and three men fleeing the Black Death tell one hundred stories in what collection of stories? - ttddThe Decameron
World Literature: Answer these questions about Italian literature. The Decameron was a work by what Italian author whose works are said to have influenced Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales? - ttddGiovanni Boccaccio
World Literature: Answer these questions about Italian literature. What Italian poet wrote many of his works to a woman named Laura and is the namesake of a type of sonnet whose 14 lines are divided into an octet and a sestet? - ttddPetrarch
World Literature: The title character of what novel meets a cannibal named Friday after surviving a shipwreck on a desert island? - ttddRobinson Crusoe
World Literature: Robinson Crusoe was written by what English author of Journal of the Plague Year? - ttddDaniel Defoe
World Literature: This novel was loosely inspired by the life of a criminal the author had met at Newgate Prison. The title character of this novel pretends to have great wealth in order to attract Samuel, despite the fact that she is already engaged to Calum Murray. Identify this novel about the life of the title con artist by Daniel Defoe. - ttddMoll Flanders
World Literature: Answer these questions about Lord, Alfred Tennyson. An attack by 600 infantrymen at the Battle of Balaclava is the subject of what poem by Tennyson? - ttdd"The Charge of the Light Brigade"
World Literature: Answer these questions about Lord, Alfred Tennyson. Tennyson drew upon the works of Homer for what poem about Odysseus that shares its title with a James Joyce novel? - ttdd"Ulysses"
World Literature: Answer these questions about Lord, Alfred Tennyson. The title character of this poem "has a lovely face, God in his mercy lend her grace". One figure in this poem sings "tirra lirra" while down by the river and this poem is based on the Arthurian legend of Elaine of Astolat. Identify this Tennyson poem about a woman who weaves day and night before seeing Sir Lancelot. - ttdd"The Lady of Shalott"
World Literature: Answer these related literature questions. What Italian author wrote a work about 10 people fleeing from the Black Death entitled Decameron? - ttddGiovanni Boccaccio
World Literature: Answer these related literature questions. Boccaccio was a student of what Italian author who wrote many sonnets addressed to a woman named Laura? - ttddPetrarch
World Literature: Answer these related literature questions. This author discussed the abuses of the church in one of the twelve eclogues to his work entitled The Shepheard's Calendar. Sir Britomart and the Redcrosse Knight appear in a six book epic poem written by this author in praise of Elizabeth I that was composed in his namesake sonnet form. Identify this British author of The Faerie Queene. - ttddEdmund Spenser
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. What Russian author wrote Anna Karenina and War and Peace? - ttddLeo Tolstoy
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. What Russian author wrote The Brothers Karamazov and Crime and Punishment? - ttddFyodor Dostoyevsky
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. A man with just a few days to live recounts stories of his life in this author's novel The Diary of a Superfluous [soo-pur-floo-uh s] Man. This author included the stories "District Doctor" and "Raspberry Water" in a short story collection entitled A Sportsman's Sketches. Arkady Kirsanov returns from the University of Petersburg with Basarov in this author's best-known novel. Identify this author of Fathers and Sons. - ttddIvan Turgenev
World Literature: Answer these questions about The Canterbury Tales. Palamon and Arcite [R-site] are captured by Theseus in what first story from The Canterbury Tales? - ttddThe Knight's Tale
World Literature: Answer these questions about The Canterbury Tales. Nicholas and Absalon attempt to have an affair with Alisoun while her husband John is away in what second story from The Canterbury Tales? - ttddThe Miller's Tale
World Literature: Answer these questions about The Canterbury Tales. In The Canterbury Tales, the Friar complains that the Prologue to this story is too long. This story includes a tale of Jesus and a Samaritan woman and is about a knight who marries an old woman after she is able to give him the answer to the central question: "what is it that women most desire". Identify this tale told by Alyson. - ttddThe Wife of Bath's Tale
World Literature: Answer these questions about literary detectives or secret agents. What British author created the fictional agent James Bond? - ttddIan Fleming
World Literature: Answer these questions about literary detectives or secret agents. What British author of Murder on the Orient Express created the fictional detectives Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple? - ttddAgatha Christie
World Literature: Answer these questions about literary detectives or secret agents. Mr. Verloc works as a spy for an unnamed country in this author's novel The Secret Agent. This author is better known for a novel in which Marlow tells the story of the ivory trader Kurtz. Identify this author of Heart of Darkness. - ttddJoseph Conrad
World Literature: Identify the following Sherlock Holmes stories. This story sees both Sherlock Holmes and Moriarty fall off of Reichenbach Falls to their deaths. - ttdd"The Final Problem"
World Literature: Identify the following Sherlock Holmes stories. Two people are found dead below the word "RACHE" written in blood in this first story by Doyle to feature Sherlock Holmes. - ttdd"A Study in Scarlet"
World Literature: Identify the following Sherlock Holmes stories. Doctor Rylott asks Helen Stonor to sleep in a bed that is nailed to the floor in this story that sees Helen consult with Sherlock Holmes. Identify this story that sees Holmes deduce that Rylott plans to kill Helen using one of his exotic pets. - ttdd"The Adventure of the Speckled Band"
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English author. What epic poem was written to "justify the ways of God to man" and profiles the temptation of Adam and Eve and their expulsion from the Garden of Eden? - ttddParadise Lost
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English author. Paradise Lost was written by what English author who described the temptation of Christ in the Gospel of Luke in Paradise Regained? - ttddJohn Milton
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English author. One poem in this collection was mocked by Samuel Johnson for its "unpleasing numbers", while another provided the title of the John Brunner novel The Sheep Look Up. The title poem in this collection inspired the title of the Thomas Wolfe novel Look Homeward, Angel. Identify this John Milton poetry collection whose title poem was written to commemorate the death of Edward King. - ttddLycidas
World Literature: Answer these questions about an author and his works. Jim Hawkins searches for the buried treasure of Captain Flint in what novel that introduced the character of Long John Silver? - ttddTreasure Island
World Literature: Answer these questions about an author and his works. Treasure Island is a novel by what author of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde? - ttddRobert Louis Stevenson
World Literature: Answer these questions about an author and his works. One character in this novel is given a letter by Mr. Campbell, the Minister of Essendean. That character is instructed to deliver the letter to his uncle Ebeneezer, who is living at the House of Shaws. Identify this novel by Robert Louis Stevenson in which David Balfour suffers the title fate aboard the ship Covenant. - ttddKidnapped
World Literature: Rikki-Tikki-Tavi appears in what Rudyard Kipling collection of short stories that also features the tiger Shere Khan and the man cub Mowgli? - ttddThe Jungle Book
World Literature: A group of British schoolboys including Piggy and Ralph descend into savagery in what William Golding novel? - ttddLord of the Flies
World Literature: In one novel by this author, the spy Razumov is expelled from Russia and joins the revolutionaries in Geneva. In addition to Under Western Eyes, this author wrote about Charles Gould's silver mine in the fictional country of Costaguana. In a more famous novel, the crew of the boat the Nellie is told of the ivory-trading Kurtz by Charles Marlow. Identify this author of Nostromo and Heart of Darkness. - ttddJoseph Conrad
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of William Shakespeare. What man was known as the Thane of Fife and kills Macbeth in the final act? - ttddMacduff
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of William Shakespeare. Romeo kills what man in the play who Mercutio often called the "King of Cats"? - ttddTybalt
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of William Shakespeare. Neaplito gives the central character of this play and his daughter food and books after their arrival on the island. That daughter falls in love with Ferdinand, the Duke of Naples and is named Miranda. Identify this Shakespearean play about Prospero and the spirit Ariel which is named for the storm that stranded the Duke of Milan on an island. - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Identify these characters created by Charles Dickens. What title character of a Dickens novel is an orphan who meets the Artful Dodger and the criminal Fagin? - ttddOliver Twist
World Literature: Identify these characters created by Charles Dickens. What title character of a Dickens novel meets his aunt Betsey Trotwood and despises his stepfather Mr. Murdstone? - ttddDavid Copperfield
World Literature: Identify these characters created by Charles Dickens. Toss-Up: This character is killed when a gun goes off during a struggle with Miss Pross. This character is the wife of Ernest and is obsessed with seeking revenge on the Evremondes. This character knits the names of future victims of the French Revolution. Identify this villainous character from Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities. - ttddMadame Defarge
World Literature: Phileas Fogg and his valet circumnavigate the globe in what novel by Jules Verne? - ttddAround the World in Eighty Days
World Literature: Captain Nemo sails aboard the Nautilus in what novel by Jules Verne? - ttddTwenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea
World Literature: Toss-Up: One character in this novel is in love with Grauben, the goddaughter of his uncle. One character in this novel purchases a book by Snorri Sturluson, which leads him to descend into an Iceland volcano. Identify this novel about Professor Lidenbrock who encounters prehistoric animals before emerging from a volcano in Italy. - ttddJourney to the Center of the Earth
World Literature: Answer these questions about adventure novels by British authors. Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver appear in what adventure novel by Robert Louis Stevenson? - ttddTreasure Island
World Literature: Answer these questions about adventure novels by British authors. David Balfour is accused of the murder of Colin Campbell in what other adventure novel by Robert Louis Stevenson? - ttddKidnapped
World Literature: Answer these questions about adventure novels by British authors. Toss-Up: The title character of this novel appears in J.M. Coetzee's novel, Foe. The title character of this novel discovers a mysterious footprint on the Island of Despair and this novel was inspired by the real-life story of Alexander Selkirk. The title character encounters a cannibal named Friday in what novel by Daniel Defoe. - ttddRobinson Crusoe
World Literature: Identify these works of poetry. The women "come and go, talking of Michelangelo" in what poem by T.S. Eliot? - ttdd"The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock"
World Literature: Identify these works of poetry. What carpe diem poem by Andrew Marvell begins with the line "Had we but world enough and time"? - ttdd"To His Coy Mistress"
World Literature: Identify these works of poetry. Toss-Up: The speaker of this poem states that the title figure "wast not born from death" before stating that he has "been half in love with easeful death". This poem ends with the line, "Do I wake or sleep". Identify this poem by John Keats about an "immortal bird". - ttdd"Ode to a Nightingale"
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. What German author of the Sturm and Drang movement wrote an epistolary novel entitled The Sorrows of Young Werther? - ttddJohann Wolfgang von Goethe (pronounced GER-TAH)
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. Hans Castorp must stay at a Swiss sanatorium in what author's novel The Magic Mountain. - ttddThomas Mann
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. Toss-Up: One character in this novel dies after swallowing a Nazi Party pin. This novel is followed by sequels entitled Cat and Mouse and Dog Years as part of its author's Danzig Trilogy. One character in this novel has a voice that can break glass and decides at the age of three to stop growing. Identify this novel about Oskar Matzerath by Gunter Grass. - ttddThe Tin Drum
World Literature: Answer these questions about ancient Greek literature. What ancient Greek tragedian is best known for his plays Prometheus Bound and the Orestia? - ttddAeschylus
World Literature: Answer these questions about ancient Greek literature. What other ancient Greek tragedian is known for his played The Trojan Women and Medea? - ttddEuripides
World Literature: Answer these questions about ancient Greek literature. Toss-Up: In one play by this author, a sausage seller named Agoracritus seeks the approval of an elderly man named Demos. In addition to writing The Knights, this author wrote a play in which Strepsiades enrolled in The Thinkery. Identify this ancient Greek author of The Clouds who wrote about animals who say brek-kek-kek-koax-koax-koax in The Frogs. - ttddAristophanes
World Literature: Answer these questions about a collection of stories. What author of Troilus and Cressida wrote The Canterbury Tales? - ttddGeoffrey Chaucer
World Literature: Answer these questions about a collection of stories. The pilgrims in The Canterbury Tales are journeying to the shrine of what figure who was murdered by followers of Henry II? - ttddThomas a Becket
World Literature: Answer these questions about a collection of stories. Toss-Up: This story immediately precedes the Friar's Tale and the Friar complains about the length of this story's Prologue. One figure in this story approaches 24 maidens who are dancing and singing, but they disappear, leaving only an old hag in their place. Identify this story from the Canterbury Tales in which a prince is tasked with discovering what women most desire. - ttddThe Wife of Bath's Tale
World Literature: Answer these questions about epic poetry. Team C: The title character comes to the aid of Hrothgar and slays the monster Grendel in what Old English epic? - ttddBeowulf
World Literature: Answer these questions about epic poetry. The title prince travels from Troy to Rome and falls in love with Dido in what epic poem by Virgil? - ttddThe Aeneid
World Literature: Answer these questions about epic poetry. What epic poem based on the 778 Battle of Roncevaux during the reign of Charlemagne is the oldest surviving major work of French literature? - ttddThe Song or Roland
World Literature: Answer these questions about Latin American literature. What Mexican author is best known for writing "The Day of the Dead" and The Labyrinth of Solitude? - ttddOctavio Paz
World Literature: Answer these questions about Latin American literature. What Peruvian author and winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature is best known for writing Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter? - ttddMario Vargas Llosa
World Literature: Answer these questions about Latin American literature. Toss-Up: The title character loves Huberto Naranjo before winding up with Rolf Carle in this author's novel Eva Luna. This author wrote a novel about Alexander Cold that is set in the Amazon rainforest entitled City of Beasts. This author is best known for a novel about a clairvoyant named Clara Trueba. Identify this Chilean-American author of The House of the Spirits. - ttddIsabel Allende
World Literature: Answer these questions about British poetry. What man who collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on Lyrical Ballads is best known for writing "Tintern Abbey"? - ttddWilliam Wordsworth
World Literature: Answer these questions about British poetry. What author of "To Autumn" stated "beauty is truth, truth beauty" in his "Ode on a Grecian Urn"? - ttddJohn Keats
World Literature: Answer these questions about British poetry. Toss-Up: This author wrote ''Give pounds and crowns and guineas, / But not your heart away'' in his poem "Terence, this is Stupid Stuff". This man included the line Malt does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man" in his poem "A Shropshire Lad". Identify this poet who wrote about a man who "won his town the race" in "To An Athlete Dying Young". - ttddA.E. Housman
World Literature: Identify these Nobel Prize winning European authors. What Nobel Prize winning Irish author wrote The Second Coming and Easter 1916? - ttddWilliam Butler Yeats
World Literature: Identify these Nobel Prize winning European authors. What Nobel Prize winning French-born Algerian author wrote The Plague and The Stranger? - ttddAlbert Camus
World Literature: Identify these Nobel Prize winning European authors. Toss-Up: The title character is a friend of Emil Sinclair in this author's novel Demian. This author wrote about Harry Haller and the Magic Theatre in his novel Steppenwolf. This author combined two Sanskrit words for his novel Siddhartha and wrote another novel about Joseph Knecht, who desires the title Magister Ludi. Identify this German author of The Glass Bead Game. - ttddHerman Hesse
World Literature: Name these Shakespeare plays: This play features a prostitute named Bianca, and the villain Iago. The title main character stabs himself after smothering Desdemona. - ttddOthello
World Literature: Name these Shakespeare plays: Hero and Claudio fall in love, and Benedick and Beatrice are tricked into admitting their love for each other in this witty comedy. - ttddMuch Ado about Nothing
World Literature: Name these Shakespeare plays: This play is based upon the ninth tale told on day three of Boccaccio's The Decameron. One character in this play travels to France in an attempt to cure the king who is ill. That character eventually marries the man she loves at the urging of the King, though that man later abandons her. Identify this Shakespearean play featuring Helena and Bertram, the Count of Rousillon. - ttddAll's Well that End's Well
World Literature: Identify these Scottish authors. This author was inspired by the story of Alexander Selkirk to detail David Balfour's capture in Kidnapped. Name this author who wrote about Long John Silver in Treasure Island. - ttddRobert Louis Stevenson
World Literature: Identify these Scottish authors. This man created the character of Professor Challenger in his The Lost World, but is better known for creating the characters Irene Adler and Sherlock Holmes. - ttddSir Arthur Conan Doyle
World Literature: Identify these Scottish authors. This author wrote about a constantly-disappearing girl in the play Mary Rose. But this author is better known for popularizing the name Wendy in a play that also included Tiger Lily and Tinker Bell. Name this author who created Neverland in Peter Pan. - ttddJ.M. Barrie
World Literature: Answer these questions about European poetry. What song that is performed annually on New Year's Eve includes the line "Should old acquaintance be forgot, and never brought to mind?" - ttdd"Auld Lang Syne"
World Literature: Answer these questions about European poetry. "Auld Lang Syne" is a poem by what Scottish poet of "Tam O Shanter"? - ttddRobert Burns
World Literature: Answer these questions about European poetry. Toss-Up: The title figure in this poem is described as a ''Wee sleekit, cowrous, tim'rous beastie.'' John Steinbeck took the title of a novel about George Milton and Lennie Small from this poem, which includes the line "the best laid plans of mice and men often go awry". Identify this Robert Burns poem written after he accidently destroyed a nest belonging to the title creature. - ttdd"To a Mouse"
World Literature: Answer these questions about a literary controversy. What author of Midnight's Children had Ayatollah Khomeini issue a fatwa against him for his depiction of Muhammad in another literary work? - ttddSalman Rushdie
World Literature: Answer these questions about a literary controversy. Rushdie's fatwa was issued for this novel about two men who are trapped on a hijacked plane to Great Britain? - ttddThe Satanic Verses
World Literature: Answer these questions about a literary controversy. Toss-Up: British author P.H. Newby was the first person to win this award for the novel Something to Answer For. Other prominent winners of this award include Nadine Gordimer, William Golding and Margaret Atwood. Salman Rushdie won this award in 1981 for writing Midnight's Children. Identify this award given to the best original novel written in English and published in Great Britain. - ttddMan Booker Prize
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English author and his works. Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of rape in the Mirabar Caves in what novel? - ttddA Passage to India
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English author and his works. A Passage to India is a novel by what British author of Howard's End? - ttddE.M. Forster
World Literature: Answer these questions about an English author and his works. Toss-Up: One character in this novel complains to her companion about a hotel named The Pension Bertolini. Another character in this novel is convinced by Mr. Beebe to accept an offer from George Emerson. This novel ends with George marrying the protagonist, Lucy Honeychurch. Identify this E.M. Forster novel that is named for Lucy's desire to find a hotel along the Arno River. - ttddA Room With a View
World Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature by members of the Fabian Society. What author of Major Barbara wrote about a former prostitute and brothel owner in Mrs. Warren's Profession? - ttddGeorge Bernard Shaw
World Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature by members of the Fabian Society. Henry Higgins makes a bet that he can train Eliza Doolittle to be a lady in what play by George Bernard Shaw? - ttddPygmalion
World Literature: Answer these questions about works of literature by members of the Fabian Society. Toss-Up: George Ponderevo sells the title substance in this author's novel, Tono-Bungay. This author wrote about a man who creates hybrid animals through the process of vivisection in his novel The Island of Doctor Moreau. He is perhaps best known for a novel in which a man encounters Eloi and Morlocks when using the title device. Identify this British author of The Time Machine. - ttddH.G. Wells
World Literature: Answer these questions about a British poet and his works. What poem describes a game of dice between Death and Life-in-Death, and includes the line "water, water everywhere"? - ttddThe Rime of the Ancient Mariner
World Literature: Answer these questions about a British poet and his works. "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" is a poem by what author who collaborated with William Wordsworth on Lyrical Ballads? - ttddSamuel Taylor Coleridge
World Literature: Answer these questions about a British poet and his works. Toss-Up: The writing of this poem was inspired by a dream the author had before being interrupted by a person "on business from Porlock". This poem features an "Abyssinian maid playing her dulcimer" and describes a sacred river named the Alph. A stately pleasure dome was decreed in Xanadu by what title figure of a Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem? - ttdd"Kublai Khan"
World Literature: What author of A Journal of the Plague Year is best known for writing a novel about a cannibal named Friday? - ttddDaniel Defoe
World Literature: The title character's mother is imprisoned at Newgate Prison in what novel by Defoe about the title conwoman? - ttddMoll Flanders
World Literature: Toss-Up: Along with Daniel Defoe, this man is considered the father of the English novel. This author wrote a response to Henry Fielding's Tom Jones entitled The History of Sir Charles Grandison. This author wrote one novel in which the title character's marriage to Robert Lovelace prompts a duel initiated by her brother. In another novel by this author, the title character marries Mr. B. Identify this British author of Clarissa and Pamela. - ttddSamuel Richardson
World Literature: Answer the following about a country and its literature. What poems consist of a five-syllable line, a seven-syllable line, and another five-syllable line? - ttddHaiku
World Literature: Answer the following about a country and its literature. Haikus originated from what Asian country? - ttddJapan
World Literature: Answer the following about a country and its literature. Toss-Up: In this author's first novel, several boys sneak into a town where corpses are infected with numerous diseases. In another novel by this author of Nip the Buds and Shoot the Kids, a Korean grocery store owner nicknamed, The Emperor takes over Takashi and Mitsu's town. In this author's most famous work, a teacher named Bird has a son with a brain hernia. Identify this Japanese author of The Silent Cry and A Personal Matter. - ttddKenzaburo Oe
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of J.K. Rowling. What is the name of Hermione Granger's cat that eats Ron's rat Scabbers in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban? - ttddCrookshanks
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of J.K. Rowling. What is the name of the hippogriff who is sentenced to death for slashing the arm of Draco Malfoy in Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban? - ttddBuckbeak
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of J.K. Rowling. Toss-Up: An old man uses his pot to brew magical potions in "The Wizard and the Hopping Pot", which is one of five stories included in this collection. The best known story in this collection is mentioned in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, and is about figures who meet death, who gives up his Cloak of Invisibility. "The Tale of the Three Brothers" is included in what Rowling book that was bequeathed to Hermione by Dumbledore in the Deathly Hallows? - ttddThe Tales of Beedle the Bard
World Literature: Identify these last names from literature. What last name is shared by sisters Jane, Elizabeth, Mary, Catherine, and Lydia in Pride and Prejudice? - ttddBennet
World Literature: Identify these last names from literature. What last name is shared by Elinor and Marianne in Sense and Sensibility? - ttddDashwood
World Literature: Identify these last names from literature. Toss-Up: One person with this last name is the owner of a wine shop and harbors the fugitive Alexander Manette. Another person with this last name is accompanied by the Vengeance and is killed by a gun fired by Miss Pross. That person with this last name knits the names of people to be killed during the French Revolution. Identify this last name of Ernest and Therese in A Tale of Two Cities. - ttddDefarge
World Literature: Identify these authors from lesser-known works. What British author wrote Homage to Catalonia and Shooting an Elephant, but is better known for creating Big Brother? - ttddGeorge Orwell
World Literature: Identify these authors from lesser-known works. What British author of The Silmarillion is best known for creating Smaug the Dragon? - ttddJRR Tolkien
World Literature: Identify these authors from lesser-known works. Toss-Up: A series of discussions that this man had on BBC radio was collected into the book Mere Christianity. This author wrote a novel about a series of documents sent from the title character to his nephew Wormwood in The Screwtape Letters. This author is better known for writing a series of novels including The Silver Chair and Prince Caspian. Identify this author of The Chronicles of Narnia. - ttddCS Lewis
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean monarchs. What Shakespearean king from a history play ascends to the throne after the death of his brother Edward IV and speaks the line "my kingdom for a horse"? - ttddRichard III (prompt on partial answers)
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean monarchs. What Shakespearean king from a history play was the second monarch from the House of Lancaster and gives a speech that includes the line "we few, we happy few, we band of brothers"? - ttddHenry V (prompt on partial answers)
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean monarchs. Toss-Up: This man's son disguised himself as a madman named Tom O'Bedlam. This man stated that "nothing will come of nothing" while trying to solicit a declaration of love from his youngest daughter. This man is thrown out of the castles of the Duke of Albany and the Duke of Cornwall. Identify this fictional Shakespearean monarch who has to divide his kingdom among his daughters Regan, Cordelia, and Goneril. - ttddKing Lear
World Literature: Identify these works of Russian literature. Constantine Treplev shoots the title bird in what play by Anton Chekhov? - ttddThe Seagull
World Literature: Identify these works of Russian literature. What nonfiction book by Alexander Solzhenitsyn is a profile of Soviet forced labor camps? - ttddThe Gulag Archipelago
World Literature: Identify these works of Russian literature. Toss-Up: One character in this play returns from an exile in France, while another character has the nickname "Twenty-Two Calamaties". This play ends with the servant Firs realizing that he has been left behind at the title estate, which has been purchased by Lopakhin. The estate of Madame Ranevskaya is destroyed at the end of what play by Anton Chekhov? - ttddThe Cherry Orchard
World Literature: Answer these related questions about an English novel. Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx live in the year 632 After Ford in what dystopian novel? - ttddBrave New World
World Literature: Answer these related questions about an English novel. Brave New World is a novel by what English author of Point Counterpoint? - ttddAldous Huxley
World Literature: Answer these related questions about an English novel. Toss-Up: Brave New World takes its title from this play that includes the line "How beauteous mankind is! O brave new world that has such people in't." In this play, Trinculo and Stephano attempt to overthrow the protagonist, who is served by the spirit Ariel. Ferdinand falls in love with Miranda in what play by William Shakespeare in which Prospero conjures the title storm. - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Answer these questions about a German author. What German author won the 1946 Nobel Prize in Literature for his novels Demian and Steppenwolf? - ttddHerman Hesse
World Literature: Answer these questions about a German author. Joseph Knecht earns the title of "Magister Ludi" in what novel by Herman Hesse? - ttddThe Glass Bead Game
World Literature: Answer these questions about a German author. Toss-Up: The title character of this novel is taught many lessons by the ferryman Vasudeva after earlier serving as an apprentice to Kamaswami. The title character of this novel has his forehead kissed by Govinda, which allows him to find Enlightenment and he later marries Kamala. Identify this Herman Hesse novel that parallels the life of the Buddha. - ttddSiddhartha
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature A barber named Yakovlevich is shocked to find the title object in a loaf of bread in what short story by Nikolai Gogol? - ttdd"The Nose"
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature Akaky Akakievich dies after losing the title article of clothing in what short story by Nikolai Gogol? - ttdd"The Overcoat"
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature Toss-Up: In one scene from this novel, a horse named Gladiator defeated Frau Frau in a race. Another scene from this novel sees Stepan reconcile with his wife Dolly, while Kitty admits her love for Konstantin Levin. The title character throws herself in front of a train after an affair with Count Vronsky in what novel by Leo Tolstoy? - ttddAnna Karenina
World Literature: The Misanthrope and The School for Wives are plays by what French author whose real name is Jean-Baptiste Poquelin? - ttddMoliere
World Literature: The title hypocrite attempts to seduce Elmire and is revered by Orgon in what play by Moliere? - ttddTartuffe
World Literature: Toss-Up: One character in this play has promised his daughter to be the bride of Thomas Diaforious, the son of a Paris doctor. Moliere collapsed and died on stage while playing the title character of this play. Beline plots to get all of the title character's money in this play, while Angelique desires to marry Cleante. Identify this Moliere play about Argan, who is constantly fearful of death. - ttddThe Imaginary Invalid
World Literature: Identify some African authors. Team C: What author wrote about a hare-lipped gardener in The Life and Times of Michael K in addition to writing Waiting for the Barbarians and Disgrace? - ttddJ. M. Coetzee
World Literature: Identify some African authors. What author wrote about the tension between dark-skinned Zachariah and his white-passing brother Morris in Blood Knot and wrote about Hally, Willie, and Sam in Master Harold...and the Boys? - ttddAthol Fugard
World Literature: Identify some African authors. What Nigerian author of Dangerous Road wrote a spirit child named Azaro in the novel The Famished Road? - ttddBen Okri
World Literature: Identify the following Russian authors. What Russian author wrote short stories such as "The Nose" and "The Overcoat"? - ttddNikolai Gogol
World Literature: Identify the following Russian authors. What Russian poet wrote such narrative poems as The Bronze Horseman and Eugene Onegin? - ttddAlexander Pushkin
World Literature: Identify the following Russian authors. Toss-Up: Masha, Irina, and Olga are the title characters of this author's novel Three Sisters. In another play by this author, Nina ends up marrying Arkadina's lover Trigorin. In another play by this author, Madame Ranevskaya sells the title plot of land despite it being in her family for generations. Identify this author of The Seagull and The Cherry Orchard. - ttddAnton Chekhov
World Literature: Identify the following novelists from around the world. What South African author wrote such novels as Too Late the Phalarope and Cry the Beloved Country? - ttddAlan Paton
World Literature: Identify the following novelists from around the world. What German author wrote such novels as The Tin Drum, which was part of his Danzig Trilogy? - ttddGunter Grass
World Literature: Identify the following novelists from around the world. Toss-Up: In one novel by this author, Ayesha convinces her village that an angel wants them to walk into the sea. In another novel by this author, Parvati the Witch and Saleem Sinai are part of the title group who are born at the moment when India becomes independent. A fatwa was issued against this author because of his novel The Satanic Verses. Identify this author of Midnight's Children. - ttddSalman Rushdie
World Literature: Identify these Greco-Roman authors. What ancient Greek tragedian wrote Seven Against Thebes as well as the The Oresteia trilogy about the family of Agamemnon? - ttddAeschylus
World Literature: Identify these Greco-Roman authors. What ancient Greek writer of comedies wrote about Socrates' Thinkery in The Clouds and about the title avians in The Birds? - ttddAristophanes
World Literature: Identify these Greco-Roman authors. Toss-Up: This author wrote about the fates of such characters as Cassandra and Hecuba in the play The Trojan Women. One play by this author ends with the title character being whisked away in the chariot of Helios. The title character of that play by this author kills Glauce and the children she had with the hero Jason. Identify this ancient Greek tragedian, the author of Medea. - ttddEuripides
World Literature: Identify these female British authors. What author published the mystery series Cormoran Strike under the pseudonym Robert Galbraith? This woman is the creator of characters like Bellatrix Lestrange and Severus Snape. - ttddJ. K. Rowling
World Literature: Identify these female British authors. What author wrote about Catherine and Heathcliff in the novel Wuthering Heights? This author's sisters, Charlotte and Anne, were also writers. - ttddEmily Bronte (prompt on "Bronte" alone)
World Literature: Identify these female British authors. Toss-Up: The narrator of one essay by this author considers the educational opportunities afforded to her at Oxbridge College and later muses about the circumstances of Judith Shakespeare. In addition to "A Room of One's Own," this author wrote a novel that opens with a trip to the flower shop taken by the title character, Clarissa. Identify this author of Mrs. Dalloway. - ttddVirginia Woolf
World Literature: Identify these novels named for women. The title character suicidally throws herself in front of a train when she cannot be with Count Vronsky at the end of what Leo Tolstoy novel? - ttddAnna Karenina
World Literature: Identify these novels named for women. The title red-headed character befriends Diana Barry after moving to the Nova Scotia farm of the Cuthberts in what Lucy Maud Montgomery novel? - ttddAnne of Green Gables
World Literature: Identify these novels named for women. Toss-Up: In this novel, Mr. Brocklehurst mistreats students like the title character's friend Helen Burns during their time at Lowood School. After becoming the governess for the child Adele Varens, the title character of this novel meets the master of Thornfield Hall, whose first wife Bertha Mason is kept in the attic. Mr. Rochester is the love interest of the title character in what Charlotte Bronte novel? - ttddJane Eyre
World Literature: Identify the following novels by German authors. Paul Baumer signs up to fight in World War I, but dies after being shot in a trench, in what novel by Erich Maria Remarque? - ttddAll Quiet on the Western Front
World Literature: Identify the following novels by German authors. The title scholar sells his soul to Mephistopheles in order to gain knowledge in what play by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe? - ttddFaust
World Literature: Identify the following novels by German authors. Toss-Up: This novel features a gang called "The Dusters" and one scene in this novel sees Herbert attempt to impregnate Niobe. Jan Bronski steals a necklace for one character in this novel, who later sees eels being pulled from the head of a dead horse. The protagonist of this novel forms a jazz band with Klepp and Scholle that plays at the Onion Cellar, and another character in this novel dies after swallowing a Nazi Party Pin. Oskar Matzerath is the unreliable narrator of what first book in The Danzig Trilogy by Gunter Grass? - ttddThe Tin Drum
World Literature: Identify the country the following authors hail from. One author from this country, Karel Capek, introduced the word "robot" in the play R.U.R. The author of The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan Kundera, is also from this country. - ttddCzech Republic
World Literature: Identify the country the following authors hail from. One author from this country wrote about characters with mental illness in The Silent Cry and A Personal Matter. That author, Kenzaburo Oe, won a literary award named for another author from this country, Akutagawa. - ttddJapan
World Literature: Identify the country the following authors hail from. Toss-Up: One author from this country wrote about the importance of female teachers and the education of girls in Reply to Sister Philotea. Another author from this country wrote The Traps of Faith about that author, a nun named Juana Ines de la Cruz. One work about this country includes the essays "The Pachuco and Other Extremes," and "The Day of the Dead." The author of The Labyrinth of Solitude, Octavio Paz, is from what Spanish-speaking country? - ttddMexico
World Literature: Identify some British poets. What poet's most famous poem "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways" is one of the sonnets collected in her work Sonnets from the Portuguese? - ttddElizabeth Barrett Browning
World Literature: Identify some British poets. What poet often wrote about World War I, such as in his poem "Dulce et Decorum Est?" - ttddWilfred Owen
World Literature: Identify some British poets. Toss-Up: This poet wrote one work that claims that before death, "some work of noble note may yet be done" by men that "strove with God." That poem by this author ends "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." The narrator of another of this author's poems wants no "sadness of farewell" and wishes to see his "pilot face to face" upon completing the title action. "Ulysses" and "Crossing the Bar" were written by what English Lord? - ttddAlfred, Lord Tennyson
World Literature: Identify some poets from around the world. What author was inspired by Joseph Glanvil to write "The Scholar Gypsy" and opened his most famous poem with the line "The sea is calm tonight." - ttddMatthew Arnold
World Literature: Identify some poets from around the world. This poet wrote that he was "young and easy under the apple boughs" in "Fern Hill" and commanded his dying father to "rage, rage against the dying of the light" in a famous villanelle. - ttddDylan Thomas
World Literature: Identify some poets from around the world. Toss-Up: This poet commanded one poem's addressee to engage in "savage wars of peace" in order to serve captives he describes as "half devil and half child." In addition to "The White Man's Burden," this poet wrote a poem in which the title character is called "a better man than I am" for carrying the narrator to safety. This poet wrote another poem that instructs the listener about how to "be a man my son." What English author wrote "Gunga Din" and "If"? - ttddRudyard Kipling
World Literature: Answer the following about Thomas Hardy. Hardy penned what novel whose title character is the daughter of John and Joan Durbeyfield and is loved by Angel Clare? - ttddTess of the d'Urbervilles
World Literature: Answer the following about Thomas Hardy. Bathsheba Everdene and Gabriel Oak are the main characters of what other Hardy novel that is set in the fictional county of Wessex? - ttddFar From the Madding Crowd
World Literature: Answer the following about Thomas Hardy. Toss-Up: In one scene from this novel, Lucette Le Sueur has a miscarriage after a series of letters are read aloud. The protagonist of this novel begins a rivalry with Donald Farfrae after the failed prediction of a "weather prophet". While at the Weydon Fair, the protagonist of this novel sells his wife and daughter to a sailor. Identify this novel in which Michael Henchard holds the title municipal position. - ttddThe Mayor of Casterbridge
World Literature: Answer these questions about The Divine Comedy. Dante describes the ninth circle of Hell in this first part of the Divine Comedy, which precedes Purgatorio. - ttddInferno
World Literature: Answer these questions about The Divine Comedy. In Purgatorio, Dante is reunited with this lover of his, who leads him through the final realm, Paradiso. - ttddBeatrice Portinari
World Literature: Answer these questions about The Divine Comedy. Toss-Up: This character introduces himself by announcing that he was born in the time of Julius Caesar after saving Dante from a leopard, lion, and wolf at the end of Canto 1 of the Inferno. This character forces Charon to row to the first circle of hell, where he and Dante meet fellow poets Horace and Ovid. This man is known for writing about the son of Anchises and lover of Dido in an epic poem. Dante's guide through hell was what ancient Roman poet of the Aeneid? - ttddVirgil
World Literature: Identify these Romantic poets. The line "Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter." is in one poem by this author. What poet, who died from tuberculosis, wrote Ode on a Grecian Urn? - ttddJohn Keats
World Literature: Identify these Romantic poets. This poet wrote "if winter comes, can spring be far behind?" in his poem Ode to the West Wind. What poet also wrote Ozymandias? - ttddPercy Bysshe Shelley
World Literature: Identify these Romantic poets. What poet wrote "How should I greet thee? With silence and tears." in his poem When We Two parted, but is more famous for his poem She Walks in Beauty? - ttddLord Byron or George Gordon
World Literature: Name these French authors. What author wrote about the revenge that Edmond Dantes seeks against Fernand Mondego, Baron Danglars, and Magistrate Villefort in his novel The Count of Monte Cristo? - ttddAlexandre Dumas
World Literature: Name these French authors. What author's adventure novels include From the Earth to the Moon, Journey to the Center of the Earth, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, and Around the World in Eighty Days? - ttddJules Verne
World Literature: Name these French authors. Toss-Up: A series of notes by this author was published in 1998 by John Chambers and was entitled Conversations with Eternity. This author discussed the impact of the Industrial Revolution on the island of Guernsey in his novel Toilers of the Sea. What author wrote about the Quasimodo in The Hunchback of Notre Dame and about Fantine's daughter Cosette being adopted by the ex-criminal Jean Valjean in Les Miserables? - ttddVictor Hugo
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of William Shakespeare. Ferdinand falls in love with Miranda in what William Shakespeare play about the exiled Duke of Milan, Prospero? - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of William Shakespeare. In what Shakespearean comedy does the Jewish moneylender Shylock sue Antonio for a "pound of flesh"? - ttddThe Merchant of Venice
World Literature: Answer these questions about the works of William Shakespeare. Toss-Up: In one scene from this play, Bernardo and Marcellus encounter the ghost of a deceased king. A Tom Stoppard play is titled for two minor characters in this play, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. One character in this play laments "Alas, poor Yorick" after picking up a skull and that character in this play later states "Frailty, thy name is woman". Identify this Shakespearean tragedy about the title Prince of Denmark that includes the line "to be or not to be". - ttddHamlet
World Literature: Answer these questions about a country and its authors. Identify the nation whose authors have included Victor Hugo and Jules Verne. - ttddFrance
World Literature: Answer these questions about a country and its authors. What French author of "Ball of Fat" is best known for his short story "The Necklace"? - ttddGuy de Maupassant
World Literature: Answer these questions about a country and its authors. Toss-Up: This author wrote a collection of 51 poems entitled Paris Spleen and he wrote about the impact of being influenced by drugs in his collection Artificial Paradises. This author's best-known collection includes sections entitled "Revolt", "Death" and "Spleen and Ideal". Identify this symbolist French poet who wrote The Flowers of Evil. - ttddCharles Baudelaire
World Literature: Answer the following about a literary genre. What Romanian-born author wrote about the Smiths and the Martins having a dinner party in The Bald Soprano and about Berenger refusing to turn into the title animal in Rhinoceros? - ttddEugene Ionesco
World Literature: Answer the following about a literary genre. This genre espoused the abandonment of standard literary conventions in favor of seemingly nonsensical dialogue and narrative structure. Ionesco and Samuel Beckett are grouped in what literary genre? - ttddAbsurdists OR Theater of the Absurd
World Literature: Answer the following about a literary genre. Toss-Up: This author coined the term, "Theater of the Absurd," in an essay, and described the House of Fetish in the short story, "The Renegade." This author of The Myth of Sisyphus, wrote about Balducci and Daru in another short story, "The Guest." The Just Judges panel of the Ghent Altarpiece is stolen in one book by this author who began another novel by saying, "Mother died today." That novel includes a scene where Meursault shoots an Arab on the beach. Identify this French-Algerian author of The Fall and The Stranger. - ttddAlbert Camus
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. What author who wrote under the pseudonym Ellis Bell is best known for writing Wuthering Heights? - ttddEmily Bronte (prompt on "Bronte" alone)
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. What crime novelist of The Mousetrap introduced the detective Hercule Poirot in her novel The Mysterious Affair at Styles? - ttddAgatha Christie
World Literature: Answer these questions about British authors. Toss-Up: This author wrote a nonfiction work about an event that killed 100,000 residents of London entitled A Journal of the Plague Year. Another novel by this author about a prisoner at Newgate Prison is entitled Moll Flanders. Identify this British author who wrote about a Native American named Friday in his novel Robinson Crusoe. - ttddDaniel Defoe
World Literature: Answer these questions about European literature. Shere Khan and Baloo appear in what collection of stories about a boy named Mowgli? - ttddThe Jungle Book
World Literature: Answer these questions about European literature. The Jungle Book was written by what author who also wrote "Gunga Din" and "The White Man's Burden"? - ttddRudyard Kipling
World Literature: Answer these questions about European literature. Toss-Up: In one story by this author, the Bellman, the Barrister, and the Beaver are among the ten members of the crew pursuing the title creature. In addition to writing The Hunting of the Snark, this author wrote about how the "vorpal blade went snicker-snack" in his nonsense poem "Jabberwocky". Identify this author who wrote about the Cheshire Cat in Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. - ttddLewis Carroll
World Literature: Answer these questions about English literature. What Charles Dickens novel profiles the court case of Jarndyce v. Jarndyce? - ttddBleak House
World Literature: Answer these questions about English literature. What English author wrote the novels Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall? - ttddAnne Bronte (prompt on "Bronte" alone)
World Literature: Answer these questions about English literature. Toss-Up: Fanny Price is sent to live with her aunt and uncle in this author's novel Mansfield Park. Anne Elliott marries Frederick Wentworth in this author's novel Persuasion. This author's best known novel, Elizabeth Bennet marries Fitzwilliam Darcy. Identify this English author of Sense and Sensibility and Pride and Prejudice. - ttddJane Austen
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. Raskolnikov kills an elderly pawnbroker in what novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky? - ttddCrime and Punishment
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. The title character commits suicide by jumping in front of train in what novel by Leo Tolstoy? - ttddAnna Karenina
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. Toss-Up: One character leaves his wife Valeria for a Russian cab driver, while another character in this novel is run over by a car driven by Frederick Beale. One character in this novel shoots the author of "The Enchanted Hunters", Claire Quilty. Identify this Vladimir Nabokov novel about Humbert Humbert's obsession with Dolores Haze, - ttddLolita
World Literature: Answer these questions about English authors. What author wrote about the Miller, the Knight and the Wife of Bath in The Canterbury Tales? - ttddGeoffrey Chaucer
World Literature: Answer these questions about English authors. What author wrote about man's first disobedience in Paradise Lost? - ttddJohn Milton
World Literature: Answer these questions about English authors. Toss-Up: This author's only novel was about a group of Scottish rovers during the reign of Henry III and was entitled The Borderers. This author wrote about revisiting the banks of the River Wye in his poem "Tintern Abbey". He is best known for a collaboration with fellow author Samuel Taylor Coleridge. Identify this English poet of "Daffodils" who collaborated on Lyrical Ballads. - ttddWilliam Wordsworth
World Literature: Answer these questions about South American literature. What Mexican author won the Nobel Prize in Literature for works such as The Labyrinth of Solitude and "Sunstone"? - ttddOctavio Paz
World Literature: Answer these questions about South American literature. What Argentinian author included "The Library of Babel" and "The Garden of Forking Paths" in his collection, Ficciones? - ttddJorge Luis Borges
World Literature: Answer these questions about South American literature. Toss-Up: One character in this novel is introduced to ice by the gypsy Melquiades while another character in this novel is born with a pig's tail. One character in this novel has 17 sons, all of whom share his name. This novel is set in Macondo and is about descendents of Jose Arcadio. Identify this novel about seven generations of the Buendia family that was written by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. - ttddOne Hundred Years of Solitude
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. The title character strangles his wife Desdemona after accusing her of adultery in what Shakespearean tragedy? - ttddOthello
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. What Shakespearean comedy centers around the wedding of Theseus, the Duke of Athens to the Amazon queen Hippolyta? - ttddA Midsummer Night's Dream
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. Toss-Up: One character in this play is the son of a witch named Sycorax. Minor characters in this play include the drunken butler Stephano and the humpbacked jester Trinculo. A shipwrecked prince in this play named Ferdinand falls in the love with the daughter of the Duke of Milan, Miranda. Prospero conjures the title storm in what play by William Shakespeare. - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. Raskolnikov murders an elderly pawnbroker in what novel by Fyodor Dostoyevsky? - ttddCrime and Punishment
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. The Nihilist Bazarov arrives at the estate of Arkady Kirsanov what novel by Ivan Turgenev? - ttddFathers and Sons
World Literature: Answer these questions about Russian literature. Toss-Up: In one short story by this author, Khoma Brut reads psalms over a dead body only to realize the girl is not dead. Another story by this author of "Viy" sees the title character shoot his son, Andriy. Poprishchin is the main character of that short by this author entitled "Diary of a Madman." Khlestakov is mistaken for the title character in another short story by this author who is perhaps best known for writing a short story about a man who finds the title body party in a loaf of bread. Identify this Russian author of "The Inspector General" and "The Nose." - ttddNikolai Gogol
World Literature: Identify the following novels by Charles Dickens. What book details the travels of Augustus Snodgrass, Nathaniel Winkle, and Tracy Tupman, all members of the namesake club? - ttddThe Pickwick Papers
World Literature: Identify the following novels by Charles Dickens. Due to the gambling schemes of Nell Trent's grandfather, the two are forced to give up the title business to Daniel Quilp in what novel by Dickens? - ttddThe Old Curiosity Shop
World Literature: Identify the following novels by Charles Dickens. Toss-Up: One character in this novel agrees to be less abusive toward his wife and gives up his profession of digging up graves. That man, Jerry Cruncher, works at Tellson's Bank. Another character in this novel accidently runs over a child with a carriage while another character in this work is obsessed with making shoes while in prison. Miss Pross goes deaf after accidently shooting Madame Defarge in this work. Sydney Carton dies in the place of his look-a-like, Charles Darnay in what novel that begins, "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times?" - ttddA Tale of Two Cities
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature from the 16th century. Sir Thomas More wrote what satirical novel about an ideal fictional island whose title has become synonymous with any ideal community? - ttddUtopia
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature from the 16th century. What author published his plays Every Man in His Humour and The Isle of Dogs in the 16th century, but may be better known for his 17th century dramas Volpone and The Alchemist? - ttddBen Jonson
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature from the 16th century. Toss-Up: This author partnered with Thomas Nashe to write a play about a queen who falls in love with Aeneas. In addition to penning Dido, Queen of Carthage, this author wrote about a Mongol emperor in his play Tamburlaine the Great. This author wrote about Barabas in The Jew of Malta and about Mephistopheles in his best known work. Identify this British author of The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus. - ttddChristopher Marlowe
World Literature: Identify these Spanish language novelists. What Mexican author wrote the novels The Old Gringo and The Death of Artemio Cruz? - ttddCarlos Fuentes
World Literature: Identify these Spanish language novelists. What Argentine author wrote the novels Kiss of the Spider Woman and Betrayed by Rita Hayworth? - ttddManuel Puig
World Literature: Identify these Spanish language novelists. Toss-Up: This author wrote about a mysterious stranger in his novel The Green House. Antonio Conselheiro preaches about the collapse of Brazil in this author's novel The War of the End of the World. This Peruvian author won the 2010 Nobel Prize in Literature in part for a novel about the radio station Panamericana. Identify this author of Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter. - ttddMario Vargas Llosa
World Literature: Answer these questions about an epic poem by John Milton. Milton wrote what epic poem about man's expulsion from the Garden of Eden in order to "justify the ways of God to men"? - ttddParadise Lost
World Literature: Answer these questions about an epic poem by John Milton. What character in Paradise Lost who tempts Adam and Eve claims it is "better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven"? - ttddSatan (accept Lucifer)
World Literature: Answer these questions about an epic poem by John Milton. Toss-Up: In Paradise Lost, this character shows Adam the future of humans up until the Great Flood. Later, this character guides Adam and Eve out of Eden. This angel had earlier wounded Satan with a sword designed by God. Identify this fellow archangel of Gabriel and Raphael. - ttddMichael
World Literature: Identify these novels by British authors. This novel's title character attends Salem House before marrying Dora Spenlow and then his true love Agnes Wickfield. Name this novel based on its author Charles Dickens' own life. - ttddDavid Copperfield
World Literature: Identify these novels by British authors. The love of Heathcliff and Catherine Earnshaw is the central plot in the first volume of what only novel by Emily Bronte? - ttddWuthering Heights
World Literature: Identify these novels by British authors. The narrator of this novel almost jumps out of a window before flares announce the discovery of a dead body in a sunken boat. This novel ends with the housekeeper Mrs. Danvers possibly dying in a fire set on the Manderley estate. The unnamed narrator marries Maxim de Winter, whose first wife was the manipulative title character. Name this novel by Daphne du Maurier. - ttddRebecca
World Literature: Name these European poets. Virgil guides this poet through the title location in the most famous section of this author's Divine Comedy. - ttddDante Alighieri
World Literature: Name these European poets. This Scottish author wrote a poem often sung at New Year, "Auld Lang Syne" and wrote about witches chasing the title man in "Tam O'Shanter." - ttddRobert Burns
World Literature: Name these European poets. Toss-Up: This poet wrote about the title character knowing the "refined monster" of "ennui" in a poem that calls that same character a "hypocrite, my likeness, my brother." That poem opens a collection that contains sections including "Parisian Scenes" and "Spleen and Ideal." This man was an early innovator of symbolism, a movement of French poetry. Identify this poet of Les Fleurs du Mal, or The Flowers of Evil. - ttddCharles Baudelaire
World Literature: Identify these French authors. What author wrote about Quasimodo and Esmerelda in The Hunchback of Notre Dame in addition to writing Les Miserables? - ttddVictor Hugo
World Literature: Identify these French authors. What author wrote about Captain Nemo in Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea in addition to writing Journey to the Center of the Earth? - ttddJules Verne
World Literature: Identify these French authors. Toss-Up: This author wrote about a friendship between two clerks in Bouvard and Pecuchet and about a Carthaginian princess in Salammbo. An affair between Frederick Moreau and Marie Arnoux is described in this author's Sentimental Education. Identify this French author who wrote about the affairs of a woman named Emma in Madame Bovary. - ttddGustave Flaubert
World Literature: Identify these dramas written by European authors. Nora Helmer is blackmailed by Krogstad and leaves her husband Torvald in what play by Henrik Ibsen? - ttddA Doll's House
World Literature: Identify these dramas written by European authors. Vladimir and Estragon anticipate the arrival of the title character in what play by Samuel Beckett? - ttddWaiting for Godot
World Literature: Identify these dramas written by European authors. Toss-Up: One character in this play eats all of the cucumber sandwiches before others arrive to a party. Another character in this play named Cecily Cardew is dissatisfied with being served cake with tea by Gwendolyn. In this play, Jack Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff accuse one another of bunburying. Identify this play by Oscar Wilde about the value of having a particular name. - ttddThe Importance of Being Earnest
World Literature: Name some female authors from around the world. This South African author wrote about an illegal interracial relationship in Occasion for Loving and about the Smales family escaping apartheid-era violence in July's People. - ttddNadine Gordimer
World Literature: Name some female authors from around the world. This author wrote her most famous novel, subtitled The Modern Prometheus, for a horror story contest with Lord Byron and this author's husband Percy. - ttddMary Shelley
World Literature: Name some female authors from around the world. Toss-Up: The title of one novel by this author comes from Jimmy and Snowman's usernames on the video game Extinctathon. In addition to The Robber Bride and Oryx and Crake, this woman wrote a novel in which Ofglen introduces the protagonist to the Mayday movement, a secret resistance group dedicated to liberating women from the tyrannical Republic of Gilead. Offred is the protagonist of what Canadian author's The Handmaid's Tale? - ttddMargaret Atwood
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. The title character strangles his wife Desdemona after accusing her of adultery in what Shakespearean tragedy? - ttddOthello
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. What Shakespearean comedy centers around the wedding of Theseus, the Duke of Athens to the Amazon queen Hippolyta? - ttddA Midsummer Night's Dream
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. Toss-Up: One character in this play is the son of a witch named Sycorax. Minor characters in this play include the drunken butler Stephano and the humpbacked jester Trinculo. A shipwrecked prince in this play named Ferdinand falls in the love with the daughter of the Duke of Milan, Miranda. Prospero conjures the title storm in what play by William Shakespeare. - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Answer these questions about Asian literature. What Indian author was the first non-European winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature and wrote the poetry collection Gitanjali as well as the national anthem of India? - ttddRabindranath Tagore
World Literature: Answer these questions about Asian literature. What Edo period Japanese poet and author of The Narrow Road to the Deep North is known as the master of haiku? - ttddMatsuo Basho
World Literature: Answer these questions about Asian literature. Toss-Up: This author wrote about the suicide of Keiko in his first novel entitled A Pale View of Hills. One work by this author centers on three students at the Hailsham Boarding School, while another novel is told from the perspective of a butler named Stevens. Those novels by this author are entitled Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day. Identify this Japanese author and winner of the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature. - ttddKazuo Ishiguro
World Literature: Identify some playwrights from around the world. What South African author wrote about the brothers Zachariah and Morris in Bloodknot and about the racist boy Halley and his servants Sam and Willie in Master Harold and the Boys? - ttddAthol Fugard
World Literature: Identify some playwrights from around the world. What author wrote about the hitmen Gus and Ben communicating via the title device in The Dumb Waiter and about Goldberg and McCann crashing the title shindig in The Birthday Party? - ttddHarold Pinter
World Literature: Identify some playwrights from around the world. Toss-Up: In one play by this author, Mrs. Arbuthnot reveals to her son Gerald that his father is the lascivious politician Lord Illingworth. In another play by this author, Mrs. Erlynne claims the title object in an attempt to hide the affair between Lord Darlington and the title character. Those plays by this author are A Woman of No Importance and Lady Windermere's Fan. In another play by this author, bunburying is practiced by Algernon Moncrieff who pretends to be a man with the title name. What author wrote about Jack Worthing in The Importance of Being Earnest. - ttddOscar Wilde
World Literature: Answer these questions about French authors. What symbolist poet included a section entitled "Spleen and Ideal" in his collection The Flowers of Evil? - ttddCharles Baudelaire
World Literature: Answer these questions about French authors. What French novelist and playwright included works entitled Eugenie Grandet and Peré Goriot in his collection The Human Comedy? - ttddHonore de Balzac
World Literature: Answer these questions about French authors. Tossup: This author's short story "A Drama in the Air" foreshadows his first novel about Dr. Samuel Fergusson's journey in the title vessel. Another novel by this author sees members of the Baltimore Gun Club attempt to build a space gun. In addition to writing Five Weeks in a Balloon and From the Earth to the Moon, this author wrote about a series of volcanic tubes used by German professor Otto Lidenbrock. Identify this author of Journey to the Center of the Earth. - ttddJules Verne
World Literature: Identify some countries by their literature. What country is home to the author of Beatrice and Virgil, Yann Martel, and an author who wrote about Offred's time living in the oppressively patriarchal Gilead in her most famous work? - ttddCanada
World Literature: Identify some countries by their literature. This island nation's unofficial national anthem, "Guantanamera," was written by its author Jose Marti. Identify this country that is home to novelist Alejo Carpentier, one of the originators of magic realism. - ttddCuba
World Literature: Identify some countries by their literature. Tossup: In an epic poem from this country, the god Jupiter gives an impassioned speech to his fellow gods concerning the fate of the central voyagers. That poem is by this country's author Luis de Camoes. Another author from this country wrote a work in which a man assaulting a young girl is stabbed in the neck with a pair of scissors by the doctor's wife, the only character who has not contracted the mysterious title affliction. The Lusiads and Blindness by Jose Saramago are works from what Iberian country? - ttddPortugal
World Literature: Answer some questions about Japanese literature. What Japanese poet is famous for his many haiku, including those collected in his - ttddtravelogue Narrow Road to the Deep North?
World Literature: Answer some questions about Japanese literature. Basho - ttddTeam A: What form of Japanese theater developed by Kanami and his son Zeami uses famous emotive masks carved from wood?
World Literature: Answer some questions about Japanese literature. Noh - ttddTossup: The protagonist of one novel by this author is tasked with killing abusive men while in an alternate universe in the same year. In that novel by this author, Tengo is tasked with re-writing a manuscript written by a teen who grew up in a cult. In addition to writing 1Q84, this author wrote about Toru searching for his missing cat and wife in The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle, and about the title run-away teen confronting the maniacal Johnnie Walker in Kafka on the Shore. Identify this Japanese surrealist author.
World Literature: Identify some ancient Greco-Roman authors. A character who accidentally marries his mother Jocasta and kills his father Laius was created by what author in his play, Oedipus Rex? - ttddSophocles
World Literature: Identify some ancient Greco-Roman authors. What author wrote about the title group whose husbands had died in The Trojan Women and about the title woman seeking revenge on her husband Jason and his new wife Glauce in Medea? - ttddEuripides
World Literature: Identify some ancient Greco-Roman authors. Toss-Up: One work by this author offers advice like writing poetry to woo a lover and not dating in the dark or while drunk. That work, Ars Amatoria, or The Art of Love, possibly caused this author to be exiled on the Black Sea. This author's most famous work details events such as Orpheus's descent into the underworld and the Fall of Troy. Name this ancient Roman poet of Metamorphoses. - ttddOvid
World Literature: Answer these questions about epic poems. The beginning of this poem describes the rage of the title character and notably begins in medias res. Identify this poem describing the events of the Trojan War that was written by Homer. - ttddThe Iliad
World Literature: Answer these questions about epic poems. The Redcrosse Knight becomes St. George in what poem by Edmund Spenser, whose character Gloriana symbolized Elizabeth I? - ttddThe Faerie Queene
World Literature: Answer these questions about epic poems. Toss-Up: After a mass drowning in the Ebro river in this poem, the emir Baligant attempts to aid Marsilius but is killed instead. After being nominated as a messenger in this poem, Ganelon informs the Saracens of an impending attack. Upon the prompting of Archbishop Turpin, the title character of this poem blows his oliphant horn in order to summon the help of Charlemagne and the Frankish army. Based on the events of the Battle of Roncevaux Pass is what French epic poem? - ttddThe Song of Roland
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. Shylock attempts to extract a pound of flesh from Antonio in what Shakespearean comedy? - ttddThe Merchant of Venice
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. Falstaff writes love letters to Mistress Page and Mistress Ford in what Shakespearean comedy? - ttddThe Merry Wives of Windsor
World Literature: Identify these works by William Shakespeare. Toss-Up: A "song" in this play was the origin of the phrase "full fathom five". A witch named Sycorax was a former resident of this play's central location where one character falls under the command of Stephano and Trinculo. Ferdinand falls in love with the daughter of the Duke of Milan, Miranda, in what Shakespearean play that features a spirit named Ariel. - ttddThe Tempest
World Literature: Identify some authors from around the world who wrote in English. This author, born in Russia, is most famous for his English-language novel about Humbert Humbert's pedophilic attraction to Dolores Haze, Lolita. - ttddVladimir Nabokov
World Literature: Identify some authors from around the world who wrote in English. This French-speaking author translated his most famous work about Vladimir and Estragon, Waiting for Godot, to English himself. - ttddSamuel Beckett
World Literature: Identify some authors from around the world who wrote in English. Toss-Up: This author wrote about a famine caused by a priest's refusal to hold the traditional feast of yams after his village is invaded by John Goodcountry. In addition to Arrow of God, this author wrote a work in which the protagonist's life spirals out of control when he forces his girlfriend Clara to have an abortion and is caught accepting bribes. That protagonist, Obi, is the grandson of this author's most famous character, an elder of Umuofia named Okonkwo. Name this Nigerian author of No Longer at Ease and its prequel, Things Fall Apart. - ttddChinua Achebe
World Literature: Identify these plays by William Shakespeare. Touchstone marries Audrey and Rosalind marries Orlando in the forest of Arden in what Shakespearean play? - ttddAs You Like It
World Literature: Identify these plays by William Shakespeare. Two characters named Dromio both have servants named Antipholus in this play about separated twin brothers living in Ephesus and Syracuse? - ttddThe Comedy of Errors
World Literature: Identify these plays by William Shakespeare. Toss-Up: In this play, Fleance escapes the scene of his father's assassination, and in Act 5, one character delivers his famous, "Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and Tomorrow" soliloquy. This play opens with three witches meeting with the main character, and another scene in this play includes the Ghost of Banquo. The title character kills the King of Scotland, Duncan, in what tragedy by Shakespeare? - ttddMacbeth
World Literature: Identify these novels with place names in the title. What Alexandre Dumas novel is named for the island on which Edmund Dantes finds a treasure that he uses to reinvent himself as the title character to enact revenge on his enemies? - ttddThe Count of Monte Cristo
World Literature: Identify these novels with place names in the title. In this E.M. Forster novel, Adela Quested falsely accuses Dr. Aziz of assault in the Marabar Caves in the title country. - ttddA Passage to India
World Literature: Identify these novels with place names in the title. Toss-Up: At the start of this novel, the protagonist feels he is being watched by a mysterious red-headed man outside a cemetery. After following another character through the title city, the protagonist of this novel buys some strawberries that are overripe. The protagonist of this novel witnesses a fight between Jasiu and the Polish teen Tadzio before dying of cholera. Gustav von Aschenbach is the protagonist of what novel by Thomas Mann? - ttddDeath in Venice
World Literature: Answer these questions about John Keats. In what ode by Keats addressed to a bird does the speaker stated "Was it a vision or a waking dream/ Fled is that music. Do I wake or sleep?" - ttdd"Ode to a Nightingale"
World Literature: Answer these questions about John Keats. Keats declares that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty" in what other poem that opens with the line "Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness!" - ttdd"Ode on a Grecian Urn"
World Literature: Answer these questions about John Keats. Toss-Up: Upon the death of John Keats, this other poet wrote an elegy entitled "Adonais". One poem by this author notes that "If Winter comes, can spring be far behind", while another of his poems opens with the line "Hail to thee, blithe spirit". This author also wrote a poem that includes the line ''Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!''. Identify this British poet of "Ode to the West Wind", "To a Skylark", and "Ozymandias". - ttddPercy Shelley
World Literature: Identify these works by English authors. What English romantic poet wrote "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" and "Tintern Abbey"? - ttddWIlliam Wordsworth
World Literature: Identify these works by English authors. Wordsworth collaborated on his collection Lyrical Ballads with what other English romantic poet who wrote "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"? - ttddSamuel Taylor Coleridge
World Literature: Identify these works by English authors. Toss-Up: One character in this collection makes fun of another's profession in a story in which John and Alan sleep with Symkyn's wife and daughter. Bailey decides to lead a group of pilgrims in this collections' prologue which is set at the Tabard Inn. Identify this collection of stories by Geoffrey Chaucer including ones names for the Knight and the Miller. - ttddThe Canterbury Tales
World Literature: Identify these 19th century European authors. What European author wrote The Lady of the Lake, Rob Roy, and Ivanhoe? - ttddSir Walter Scott
World Literature: Identify these 19th century European authors. What English poet wrote the narrative poems Don Juan and Childe Harold's Pilgrimage in addition to writing "She Walks in Beauty"? - ttddLord Byron
World Literature: Identify these 19th century European authors. Toss-Up: In one novel by this author, Thomas Gradgrind works as a school superintendent. In addition to writing Hard Times, this author wrote a novel centering on the court case of Jarndyce v. Jarndyce entitled Bleak House. Other characters created by this author include Betsy Trotwood, Pip, and the Artful Dodger. Identify this British author of David Copperfield and Oliver Twist. - ttddCharles Dickens
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. Gregor Samsa turns into an insect and is pelted with apples by his father in what story by a German author? - ttdd"The Metamorphosis"
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. "The Metamorphosis" is by this author who used the last name of K in novels like "The Trial" and "The Castle". - ttddFranz Kafka
World Literature: Answer these questions about German literature. Toss-Up: In one novel by this author, Pilenz dares the Great Mahlke to dive into a sunken minesweeper. That novel, Cat and Mouse, is one in a trilogy by this author that includes a novel in which Alfred swallows his swastika pin to avoid being revealed as a Nazi. The protagonist of that novel by this author drums at the Onion Cellar with his jazz band and at the age of 3 decides to not grow up. What author's Danzig Trilogy includes his novel about Oskar Matzerath, The Tin Drum? - ttddGunter Grass
World Literature: Identify these British poems. What Alfred Lord Tennyson poem about a disastrous offensive at the Battle of Balaclava during the Crimean War begins "Half a league, half a league / Half a league onwards?" - ttdd"The Charge of the Light Brigade"
World Literature: Identify these British poems. The narrator of what William Blake poem imagines the creation of the title creature that is "burning bright in the forests of the night?" - ttdd"The Tyger"
World Literature: Identify these British poems. Toss-Up: The narrator of this poem envisions a drink "Cooled a long age in the deep-delved earth." An F. Scott Fitzgerald novel takes its title from this poem's line "Tender is the night." This poem's narrator has been "half in love with easeful death" which was not meant for the title "immortal bird." Beginning "My heart aches and a drowsy numbness pains my sense," identify this ode by John Keats. - ttdd"Ode to a Nightingale"
World Literature: Identify the following European playwrights. What French author and lover of Simone de Beauvoir wrote "Hell is other people" in a play about Inez, Garcin, and Estelle entitled No Exit? - ttddJean-Paul Sartre
World Literature: Identify the following European playwrights. What Irish author included plays like Mrs. Warren's Profession in his Plays Unpleasant, in addition to writing about the cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion? - ttddGeorge Bernard Shaw
World Literature: Identify the following European playwrights. Toss-Up: The title character of one play by this author attempts to shoot a professor who he claims held him back from becoming a "Fyodor Dostoevsky". In another play by this author, Konstantin presents Nina with the title bird as a symbol of his love. In addition to Uncle Vanya and The Seagull, this author also wrote a play about the title piece of property owned by Madame Ranevskaya. Who is this Russian playwright of The Cherry Orchard? - ttddAnton Chekhov
World Literature: Identify these Gothic novels. Quasimodo is the bellringer of the title French cathedral in what Gothic novel by Victor Hugo? - ttddThe Hunchback of Notre Dame
World Literature: Identify these Gothic novels. The title Transylvanian vampire claims victims such as Lucy Westenra in what Bram Stoker Gothic novel? - ttddDracula
World Literature: Identify these Gothic novels. Toss-Up: Characters in this novel find a broken cane at the scene of the murder of Sir Danvers Carew. Gabriel Utterson reads a letter written by Hastie Lanyon that reveals the existence of a special serum that one title character of this novel drank in front of him to transform into the other title character. Robert Louis Stevenson wrote what Gothic novel about a doctor with an evil counterpart? - ttddStrange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (accept Jekyll and Hyde)
World Literature: Identify the languages in which the following works were written. Umberto Eco wrote The Name of the Rose in what language also used by Giovanni Boccaccio to write The Decameron? - ttddItalian
World Literature: Identify the languages in which the following works were written. Nikos Kazantzakis created the character Zorba in a novel in what language that was also used by Euripides to write plays such as Medea? - ttddGreek
World Literature: Identify the languages in which the following works were written. Toss-Up: One poem in this language opens "Folly and error, sin and avarice" and is addressed to a "Hypocrite reader." A poetry collection in this language contains sections such as "Wine" and "Spleen and Ideal." Identify this language used by Charles Baudelaire to write the symbolist collection The Flowers of Evil or Les Fleurs du Mal. - ttddFrench
World Literature: Identify these Spanish-language writers. What Chilean poet wrote "Tonight I can write the saddest lines" as one of his 20 Love Poems and a Song of Despair? - ttddPablo Neruda
World Literature: Identify these Spanish-language writers. What Colombian author created the Buendia family in One Hundred Years of Solitude? - ttddGabriel Garcia Marquez
World Literature: Identify these Spanish-language writers. Toss-Up: This author wrote a dialogue between two dogs, Scipio and Berganza, as one of his Exemplary Novels. In a novel by this author, a clergyman and a barber burn most of the title character's books relating to chivalry. In that novel by this author, the title character recruits Sancho Panza to be his squire before he famously attempts to fight some windmills. Don Quixote is by what Spanish Golden Age author? - ttddMiguel de Cervantes
World Literature: Name these European playwrights. What playwright of Arcadia wrote about two minor characters from Hamlet who flip a coin ninety-two times in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead? - ttddTom Stoppard
World Literature: Name these European playwrights. What playwright of The Birthday Party wrote about the hitmen Ben and Gus in his one-act play, The Dumb Waiter? - ttddHarold Pinter
World Literature: Name these European playwrights. Tossup: Lord Illington has an affair with Mrs. Arbuthnot in this man's play A Woman of No Importance. In another play by this author, the line "We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars," is spoken by Lord Darlington. In that play by this author, Mrs. Erlynne is the mother of the title character who she abandoned twenty years prior. The lies of Jack Worthing and Algernon Moncrieff are revealed in another play by this author. Identify this Irish playwright of Lady Windermere's Fan and The Importance of Being Earnest. - ttddOscar Wilde
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean plays. In this play, the title Thane of Glamis, alongside his wife, kills Duncan and Banquo as part of his plot to become the king of Scotland. - ttddMacbeth
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean plays. The villain Iago tricks what play's title Moor into thinking that his wife Desdemona has been unfaithful to him? - ttddOthello
World Literature: Identify these Shakespearean plays. Toss-Up: One of the title characters of this play is proposed to in Act I by Count Paris. Friar Laurence procures a fake poison for one character in this play after another character is banished for killing Tybalt. Because of the feud between the Montague and Capulet families, the title characters of this play are "star-crossed lovers." Identify this Shakespeare play about a teen romance. - ttddRomeo and Juliet
World Literature: Identify these ancient Greco-Roman authors. Antigone was written by what author who wrote about a man who accidentally kills his father and marries his mother in Oedipus Rex? - ttddSophocles
World Literature: Identify these ancient Greco-Roman authors. What author of the Georgics wrote about the lover of Dido and founder of Rome in the epic poem The Aeneid? - ttddVirgil
World Literature: Identify these ancient Greco-Roman authors. Toss-Up: The absence of a word for "blue" has been used to explain this poet's use of the phrase "wine-dark" to describe the Aegean Sea. One of this poet's works opens by describing the "rage of Peleus's son Achilles." In another work by this author, the witch Circe [SIR-see], Scylla and Charybdis [kar-IB-diss], and Polyphemus are all obstacles faced by the title character on his journey home to Ithaca. The Iliad and The Odyssey are by what blind bard? - ttddHomer
World Literature: Identify these adventure novels. Johann David Wyss is the author of what novel about the title family becoming shipwrecked on a remote desert island? - ttddThe Swiss Family Robinson
World Literature: Identify these adventure novels. In what Jules Verne novel does Phileas Fogg make a wager to circumnavigate the globe in the title amount of time? - ttddAround the World in 80 Days
World Literature: Identify these adventure novels. Toss-Up: This novel opens in the Admiral Benbow Inn, where Pew presents a "black spot" to Billy Bones. One character in this novel owns a parrot named after Captain Flint. Captain Smollett refuses to give up a map to the title gold in this novel and is attacked by Long John Silver. Jim Hawkins appears in what novel featuring pirates by Robert Louis Stevenson? - ttddTreasure Island
World Literature: Answer these questions about Latin American literature. What Mexican author and 1990 Nobel Prize winner wrote the poems "Sunstone" and "The Labyrinth of Solitude"? - ttddOctavio Paz
World Literature: Answer these questions about Latin American literature. What Argentine author wrote the short stories "The Library of Babel" and "The Garden of Forking Paths"? - ttddJorge Luis Borges
World Literature: Answer these questions about Latin American literature. Toss-Up: Vicente Huidobro and Pablo de Rokha are recognized as two of this country's four greatest poets. Another poet from this country was the first Latin American author to win the Nobel Prize in Literature, Gabriela Mistral. The best-known poet from this country wrote Canto General and Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair. Identify this South American nation that was home to Pablo Neruda. - ttddChile
World Literature: Answer these questions about castles in European literature. The surveyor K continues to search for K after receiving a note to meet him in the title location in this man's novella The Castle. - ttddFranz Kafka
World Literature: Answer these questions about castles in European literature. The Castle of Otranto is an early example of a novel in this genre, as is Matthew Lewis' The Monk. - ttddGothic literature
World Literature: Answer these questions about castles in European literature. A deleted chapter in the original manuscript of a novel describes the destruction of this location as "one fierce volcano burst had satisfied the need of nature." At this location, one character is warned that "[it] has many memories, and there are bad dreams for those who sleep unwisely." That character arrived here via the Borgo Pass in order to help a man who goes by "De Ville." One man escapes the advances of the three sisters while staying at this location, after being provided with crucifixes before arriving. Identify this location in Transylvania, the residence of the title vampire in a Bram Stoker novel. - ttddCastle Dracula [accept anything involving the words Castle and Dracula; prompt on partial answer]
World Literature: Identify these African nations given some famous authors and their works. An author from this nation, J.M. Coetzee, fictionalized the life of Daniel Defoe in his novel Foe. Other authors from this nation include Nadine Gordimer and the author of Cry, the Beloved Country, Alan Paton. - ttddRepublic of South Africa
World Literature: Identify these African nations given some famous authors and their works. This country is home to the novelist Ngugi wa Thiong'o, who wrote about the struggle between Njoroge's oppressed family and the white governor Mr. Howlands in Weep Not, Child, set during the Mau Mau Uprising. - ttddRepublic of Kenya
World Literature: Identify these African nations given some famous authors and their works. One writer from this nation discusses the rise of nationalism here in his essay "The Future of Culture in [this nation]"; that writer may be better known for his autobiography The Days. Another writer from this country detailed the lives of Mr. Kirsha and other residents of the title street in his novel Midaq Alley. This country, home to Taha Hussein, is the setting of a novel in which a man who is caught dancing by his sons forbids his wife Amina from leaving the house. That novel centering on al-Sayyid is named for this country's capital. Identify this home of Naguib Mahfouz, the author of the Cairo Trilogy. - ttddArab Republic of Egypt
World Literature: Identify these authors who discussed pets in their work. Virginia Woolf wrote a fictional biography of this poet's dog in her work Flush. This poet addressed a poem to a lover whom she instructed to "Call me by my pet name?" in her collection Sonnets from the Portuguese. - ttddElizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on "Browning"]
World Literature: Identify these authors who discussed pets in their work. The title "favourite cat" is addressed as a "hapless nymph" who drowns "in a tub of goldfishes" in one of this man's poems. He addressed Cromwell "guiltless of his country's blood" and numerous others in his poem "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." - ttddThomas Grey
World Literature: Identify these authors who discussed pets in their work. The speaker of a poem by this man addresses his lover's bird and wishes "If only I were able to play with you yourself, and/to lighten the sad cares of your mind." He later wrote a eulogy for that bird which condemns "bad darkness of Orcus" for taking away. In another of this poet's works, the speaker presents his brother "with the last tribute of death" and bids him "Hail and Farewell" at its conclusion. This poet asked his lover to "Give me a thousand kisses" in poem he addressed to Lesbia. Identify this Roman poet of one hundred sixteen poems. - ttddGaius Valerius Catullus
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature related to a certain European nation. A writer from this nation criticized Stalinism in his essay The Captive Mind. That author, Czeslaw Milosz [chess-lahv mee-loash], is from this country, as is Henryk Sienkiewicz [hen-rick seen-kee-vitch]. - ttddRepublic of Poland
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature related to a certain European nation. Sienkiewicz wrote Quo Vadis, set during the reign of this emperor. This emperor had authors like Seneca and Petronius killed during his reign. - ttddNero Claudius Caesar Augustus Germanicus
World Literature: Answer these questions about literature related to a certain European nation. In a play from this country that is set in Poland, the protagonist is locked up by his father because of a prophecy, then released before being sedated only to find out Rosaura is a woman. In another play from this country, the title woman has Dolores pray for her so she can have a child, only for her to kill her husband after realizing he never wanted a child. That author included that play, Yerma, in his Rural Trilogy, and wrote a poem set "At five in the afternoon" lamenting the death of the title figure. Pedro Calderon de la Barca and Federico Garcia Lorca are playwrights from what European nation? - ttddKingdom of Spain
World Literature: Answer the following about a European playwright. This playwright wrote about Arnolphe grooming the young Agnes to be his wife in The School for Wives and about Angelique scheming to marry Cleante in another play. - ttddMoliere
World Literature: Answer the following about a European playwright. Moliere died after collapsing onstage while performing as Argan, the title hypochondriac, in this previously mentioned play of his. - ttddThe Imaginary Invalid
World Literature: Answer the following about a European playwright. Toss-Up: In this Moliere play, the protagonist expresses concern for the title character after being informed that he has eaten two whole birds and drank some wine. Damis overhears that title character proposition his stepmother Elmire for an affair, and later, the protagonist is made to hide under a table to hear a similar conversation. At the end of this play, the protagonist allows his daughter Mariane to marry Valere after the title man is arrested under orders from Louis XIV. In what play does the title criminal convince Orgon that he is pious? - ttddTartuffe